Government of India
Ministry of Mines
MINES AND MINERALS
(DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1957
(No. 67 of 1957)
(As amended up to 10th May, 2012)
Issued by
CONTROLLER – GENERAL,
INDIAN BUREAU OF MINES,
NAGPUR
August, 2012LIST OF AMENDING ACTS
1.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1958 (15 of 1958)
2.The Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960)
3.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1972 (56 of 1972)
4.The Repealing and Amending Act, 1978 (38 of 1978)
5.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1986 (37 of 1986)
6.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1994 (25 of 1994)
7.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 1999 (38 of 1999)
8.The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Amendment Act, 2010 (34 of 2010)
*******(ii)
THE MINES AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENT AND
REGULATION) ACT, 1957
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
PAGE
1.Short title, extent and commencement1
2.Declaration as to the expediency of Union control1
3.Definitions1
GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON UNDERTAKING PROSPECTING AND MINING
OPERATIONS
4.Prospecting or mining operations to be under licence or lease2
4A.Termination of prospecting licences or mining leases3
5.Restrictions on the grant of prospecting licences or mining leases5
6.Maximum area for which a prospecting licence or mining lease may be granted6
7.Periods for which prospecting licences may be granted or renewed7
8.Periods for which mining leases may be granted or renewed7
9.Royalties in respect of mining leases8
9A.Dead rent to be paid by the lessee8(iii)
PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PROSPECTING LICENCES OR MINING LEASES IN
RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT
10.Application for prospecting licences or mining leases9
11.Preferential right of certain persons9
11A.Granting of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in
respect of coal or lignite.11
12.Registers of reconnaissance permits, prospecting licences and mining leases12
RULES FOR REGULATING THE GRANT OF RECONNAISSANCE PERMITS,
PROSPECTING LICENCES AND MINING LEASES
13.Power of Central Government to make rules in respect of minerals
13
13A.Power of Central Government to make rules for the grant of prospecting licences 15
or mining leases in respect of territorial waters or continental shelf of India.
14.Sections 5 to 13 not to apply to minor minerals
16
15.Power of State Governments to make rules in respect of minor minerals
16
16.Power to modify mining leases granted before 25th October, 1949
18
SPECIAL POWERS OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT TO UNDERTAKE PROSPECTING
OR MINING OPERATIONS IN CERTAIN CASES
17.
Special powers of Central Government to undertake prospecting or mining
operations in certain lands
17A. Reservation of area for purposes of conservation
19
20
DEVELOPMENT OF MINERALS
18.
Mineral Development
20
18A. Power to authorise Geological Survey of India, etc. to make investigation
22
MISCELLANEOUS
19. Prospecting licences and mining leases to be void if in contravention of Act24
20. Act and rules to apply to all renewals of prospecting licences and mining leases24(iv)
21.
Penalties
24
22. Cognizance of offences25
23. Offences by companies25
23A. Compounding of offences26
23B. Power to search26
23C. Power of State Government to make rules for preventing
illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals27
24.28
Power of entry and inspection
24A. Rights and liabilities of holder of prospecting licence
or mining lease28
25. Recovery of certain sums as arrears of land revenue29
26. Delegation of powers30
27. Protection of action taken in good faith30
28. Rules and notifications to be laid before Parliament and
certain rules to be approved by Parliament30
29. Existing rules to continue31
30. Power of revision of Central Government31
30A.Special provisions relating to mining leases for coal granted
before 25th October, 194931
31. Relaxation of rules in special cases31
32. (Repealed)32
33. Validation of certain acts and indemnity32
THE FIRST SCHEDULE - SPECIFIED MINERALS33
THE SECOND SCHEDULE - RATES OF ROYALTY34
THE THIRD SCHEDULE - RATES OF DEAD RENT421
MINES AND MINERALS
(DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1957
(No. 67 of 1957)
An Act to provide for the 1[development and regulation of mines and minerals] under the
control of the Union.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -
PRELIMINARY
Short title, extent and commencement.
1. (1) This Act may be called the Mines and Minerals 2[(Development and Regulation)]
Act, 1957.
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Govt. may, by Notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint.
Declaration as to the expediency of Union control.
2. It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take
under its control the regulation of mines and the development of minerals to the extent
hereinafter provided.
Definitions.
3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a) "minerals” includes all minerals except mineral oils;
(b) "mineral oils" includes natural gas and petroleum;
(c) "mining lease” means a lease granted for the purpose of undertaking mining operations,
and includes a sub-lease granted for such purpose;
(d) “mining operations" means any operations undertaken for the purpose of winning any
mineral;
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.2
(e) "minor minerals" means building stones, gravel, ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than
sand used for prescribed purposes, and any other mineral which the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a minor mineral;
(f) "Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(g) "prospecting licence" means a licence granted for the purpose of undertaking prospecting
operations;
(h) "prospecting operations" means any operations undertaken for the purpose of exploring,
locating or proving mineral deposit; 1[ Omitted ]
2
[(ha) “reconnaissance operations” means any operations undertaken for preliminary
prospecting of a mineral through regional, aerial, geophysical or geochemical surveys and
geological mapping, but does not include pitting, trenching, drilling (except drilling of bore
holes on a grid specified from time to time by the Central Government) or sub-surface
excavation;
(hb) “reconnaissance permit” means a permit granted for the purpose of undertaking
reconnaissance operations; and]
(i) the expressions "mine" and "owner" have the meanings assigned to them in the Mines
Act, 1952.
GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON UNDERTAKING PROSPECTING AND MINING
OPERATIONS
Prospecting or mining operations to be under licence or lease.
4.
(1)
3
[No person shall undertake any reconnaissance, prospecting or mining
operations in any area, except under and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of a reconnaissance permit or of a prospecting licence or, as the case
may be, a mining lease, granted under this Act and the rules made thereunder]:
Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall affect any prospecting or mining
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Omitted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1,No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
3
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No.
51, dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).3
operations undertaken in any area in accordance with the terms and conditions of a
prospecting licence or mining lease granted before the commencement of this Act which
is in force at such commencement.
Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to any prospecting operations
undertaken by the Geological Survey of India, the Indian Bureau of Mines, 1[the Atomic
Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research] of the Department of Atomic
Energy of the Central Government, the Directorates of Mining and Geology of any
State Government ( by whatever name called ), and the Mineral Exploration Corporation
Limited, a Government Company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies
Act, 1956.
2
[Provided also that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to any mining lease (whether
called mining lease, mining concession or by any other name) in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act in the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu.]
3
[(1A) No person shall transport or store or cause to be transported or stored any mineral
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.]
(2)4
(3)Any State Government may, after prior consultation with the Central Government
and in accordance with the rules made under Section 18, 5[ undertake
reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations with respect to any mineral
specified in the First Schedule in any area within that State which is not already
held under any reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease.]
[No reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] shall be granted
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder.
Termination of prospecting licences or mining leases.
4A.
(1) Where the Central Government, after consultation with the State Government, is
of opinion that it is expedient in the interest of regulation of mines and mineral
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1,No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Inserted by Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition & Declaration as Mining
Leases) Act, 1987 (No. 16 of 1987) with retrospective effect from the first day of October,1963.
3
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
4
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
5
Ibid.4
development, preservation of natural environment, control of floods, prevention
of pollution, or to avoid danger to public health or communications or to ensure
safety of buildings, monuments or other structures or for conservation of mineral
resources or for maintaining safety in the mines or for such other purposes, as the
Central Government may deem fit, it may request the State Government to make a
premature termination of a prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of any
mineral other than a minor mineral in any area or part thereof, and, on receipt of
such request, the State Government shall make an order making a premature
termination of such prospecting licence or mining lease with respect to the area or
any part thereof.
(2)
Where the State Government is of opinion that it is expedient in the interest of
regulation of mines and minerals development, preservation of natural
environment, control of floods, prevention of pollution, or to avoid danger to
public health or communications or to ensure safety of buildings, monuments or
other structures or for such other purposes, as the State Government may deem fit,
it may, by an order, in respect of any minor mineral, make premature termination
of prospecting licence or mining lease with respect to the area or any part thereof
covered by such licence or lease.
1
[ Omitted].
(3)No order making a premature termination of a prospecting licence or mining lease
shall be made except after giving the holder of the licence or lease a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.
(4)Where the holder of a mining lease fails to undertake mining operations for a
period of two years after the date of execution of the lease or having commenced
mining operations, has discontinued the same for a period of two years, the lease
shall lapse on the expiry of the period of two years from the date of execution of
the lease or, as the case may be, discontinuance of the mining operations:
Provided that the State Government may, on an application made by the holder of such
lease before its expiry under this sub-section and on being satisfied that it will not be
possible for the holder of the lease to undertake mining operations or to continue such
operations for reasons beyond his control, make an order, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed, to the effect that such lease shall not lapse:
Provided further that the State Government, may on an application by the holder
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Omitted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).5
of a lease submitted within a period of six months from the date of its lapse and on being
satisfied that such non commencement or discontinuance was due to reasons beyond the
control of the holder of the lease, revive the lease from such prospective or retrospective
date as it thinks fit but not earlier than the date of lapse of the lease:
Provided also that no lease shall be revived under the second proviso for more than twice
during the entire period of the lease.
Restrictions on the grant of prospecting licences or mining leases.
5.
(1)
A State Government shall not grant a 1[ reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease] to any person unless such person –
(a)is an Indian national, or a company as defined in sub-section (1) of
Section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956; and
(b)satisfies such conditions as may be prescribed:
Provided that in respect of any mineral specified in the First Schedule, no
1
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] shall be granted except
with the previous approval of the Central Government.
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, a person shall be deemed to be an
Indian national, -
(2)
(a)in the case of a firm or other association of individuals, only if all the
members of the firm or members of the association are citizens of India;
and
(b)in the case of an individual, only if he is a citizen of India.
No mining lease shall be granted by the State Government unless it is
satisfied that-
2
[(a)there is evidence to show that the area for which the lease is applied for
has been prospected earlier or the existence of mineral contents therein has
been established otherwise than by means of prospecting such area; and
(b)there is a mining plan duly approved by the Central Government or by the
State Government, in respect of such category of mines as may be
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.6
specified by the Central Government, for the development of mineral deposits in
the area concerned.]
Maximum area for which a prospecting licence or mining lease may be granted.
6.
(1)
No person shall acquire in respect of any mineral or prescribed group of
associated minerals 1[in a State] –
(a)
2
one or more prospecting licences covering a total area of more than
twenty-five square kilometres; or
[(aa) one or more reconnaissance permit covering a total area of ten
thousand square kilometres:
Provided that the area granted under a single reconnaissance permit shall
not exceed five thousand square kilometres; or]
(b)
one or more mining leases covering a total area of more than ten square
kilometres;
Provided that if the Central Government is of opinion that in the interests
of the development of any mineral, it is necessary so to do, it may, for
reasons to be recorded by it, in writing, permit any person to acquire one
or more prospecting licences or mining leases covering an area in excess
of the aforesaid total area;
(c)
3
[any reconnaissance permit, mining lease or prospecting licence in
respect of any area which is not compact or contiguous:
Provided that if the State Government is of opinion that in the interests of
the development of any mineral, it is necessary so to do, it may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, permit any person to acquire a
reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in relation to
any area which is not compact or contiguous.]
(2)
For the purposes of this section, a person acquiring by, or in the name of, another
person a 4[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] which is
intended for himself shall be deemed to be acquiring it himself.
(3)
For the purposes of determining the total area referred to in sub-section(1), the
area held under a 4[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] by
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated 20.12.99 (No. 38
2
of 1999).
Ibid.
3
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated 20.12.99 (No.
4
38 of 1999).
Ibid.7
a person as a member of a co-operative society, company or other corporation or a
Hindu undivided family or a partner of a firm, shall be deducted from the area
referred to in sub-section (1) so that the sum total of the area held by such person,
under a 1[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease], whether as
such member or partner, or individually, may not, in any case, exceed the total
area specified in sub-section (1).
Periods for which prospecting licences may be granted or renewed.
7.
(1)
The period for which a 2[reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence]
may be granted shall not exceed three years.
(2)
A prospecting licence shall, if the State Government is satisfied that a longer
period is required to enable the licensee to complete prospecting operations be
renewed for such period or periods as that Government may specify:
Provided that the total period for which a prospecting licence is granted does not exceed
five years;
Provided further that no prospecting licence granted in respect of 3[a mineral included in
Part A and Part B to] the First Schedule shall be renewed except with the previous
approval of the Central Government.
Periods for which mining leases may be granted or renewed.
8.
(1)
The maximum period for which a mining lease may be granted shall not
exceed thirty years:
Provided that the minimum period for which any such mining lease may be granted shall
not be less than twenty years.
(2)A mining lease may be renewed for a period not exceeding twenty years.
4
[ Omitted ].
5Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), if the State Government is
of opinion that in the interests of mineral development it is necessary so to do, it
may, for reasons to be recorded, authorise the renewal of a mining lease in respect
of minerals not specified in Part A and Part B of the First Schedule for a further
period or periods not exceeding twenty years in each case.
[(3)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
2
3
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
Ibid.
Ibid.
4
Omitted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
5
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).8
(4)
Notwithstanding, anything contained in sub-section (2) and sub-section (3), no
mining lease granted in respect of mineral specified in Part A or Part B of the
First Schedule shall be renewed except with the previous approval of the Central
Government.]
Royalties in respect of mining leases.
9.
(1)
The holder of a mining lease granted before the commencement of this Act shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of lease or in any law in
force at such commencement, pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed or
consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee
from the leased area after such commencement, at the rate for the time being
specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that mineral.
(2)The holder of a mining lease granted on or after the commencement of this Act
shall pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed or consumed by him or by his
agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee from the leased area at the
rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that mineral.
(2A)The holder of a mining lease, whether granted before or after the commencement
of Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972,
shall not be liable to pay any royalty in respect of any coal consumed by a
workman engaged in a colliery provided that such consumption by the workman
does not exceed one-third of a tonne per month.
(3)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the
Second Schedule so as to enhance or reduce the rate at which royalty shall be
payable in respect of any mineral with effect from such date as may be specified
in the notification:
Provided that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in
respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
Dead rent to be paid by the lessee.
9A.
(1)
The holder of a mining lease, whether granted before or after the commencement
of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972,
shall notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of lease or in any other
law for the time being in force, pay to the State Government, every year, dead rent
at such rate as may be specified, for the time being, in the Third Schedule, for all
the areas included in the instrument of lease:
Provided that where the holder of such mining lease becomes liable, under section
9, to pay royalty for any mineral removed or consumed by him or by his agent,
manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee from the leased area, he shall be9
liable to pay either such royalty, or the dead rent in respect of that area, whichever
is greater.
(2)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the
Third Schedule so as to enhance or reduce the rate at which the dead rent shall be
payable in respect of any area covered by a mining lease and such enhancement or
reduction shall take effect from such date as may be specified in the notification:
Provided that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of the dead rent in
respect of any such area more than once during any period of three years.
PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PROSPECTING LICENCES OR
MINING LEASES IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS
VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT
Application for prospecting licences or mining leases.
10.
(1)An application for 1[a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease]
in respect of any land in which the minerals vest in the Government shall be
made to the State Government concerned in the prescribed form and shall be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.
(2)Where an application is received under sub-section (1), there shall be sent
to the applicant an acknowledgement of its receipt within the prescribed time and
in the prescribed form.
(3)On receipt of an application under this section, the State Government may,
having regard to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, grant
or refuse to grant the 2[ permit, licence or lease].
Preferential right of certain persons
3
[11.
(1)
Where a reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence has been granted in respect
of any land, the permit holder or the licensee shall have a preferential right for
obtaining a prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, in respect of
that land over any other person:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.
3
Ibid.10
Provided that the State Government is satisfied that the permit holder or the
licensee, as the case may be, -
(2)
(a)has undertaken reconnaissance operations or prospecting operations, as the
case may be, to establish mineral resources in such land;
(b)has not committed any breach of the terms and conditions of the
reconnaissance permit or the prospecting licence;
(c)has not become ineligible under the provision of this Act; and
(d)has not failed to apply for grant of prospecting licence or mining lease, as
the case may be , within three months after the expiry of reconnaissance
permit or prospecting licence, as the case may be, or within such further
period as may be extended by the said Government.
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1),where the State Government has not
notified in the Official Gazette the area for grant of reconnaissance permit or
prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, and two or more persons
have applied for a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or a mining lease in
respect of any land in such area, the applicant whose application was received
earlier, shall have a preferential right to be considered for grant of reconnaissance
permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, over the applicant
whose application was received later:
Provided that where an area is available for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease, as the case may be, and the State Government has invited
applications by notification in the Official Gazette for grant of such permit, licence or
lease, all the applications received during the period specified in such notification and the
applications which had been received prior to the publication of such notification in
respect of the lands within such area and had not been disposed of , shall be deemed to
have been received on the same day for the purposes of assigning priority under this sub-
section.
Provided further that where any such applications are received on the same day, the State
Government, after taking into consideration the matters specified in sub-section (3), may
grant the reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be,
to such one of the applicants as it may deem fit.11
(3)
The matters referred to in sub-section (2) are the following:-
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
any special knowledge of, or experience in, reconnaissance operations,
prospecting operations or mining operations, as the case may be,
possessed by the applicant;
the financial resources of the applicant;
the nature and quality of the technical staff employed or to be employed
by the applicant;
the investment which the applicant proposes to make in the mines and in
the industry based on the minerals;
such other matters as may be prescribed.
(4)Subject to the provisions of sub-section(1), where the State Government notifies
in the Official Gazette an area for grant of reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease, as the case may be, all the applications received during
the period as specified in such notification, which shall not be less than thirty
days, shall be considered simultaneously as if all such applications have been
received on the same day and the State Government, after taking into
consideration the matters specified in sub-section(3), may grant the
reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, to
such one of the applicants as it may deem fit.
(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), but subject to the
provisions of sub-section (1), the State Government may, for any special reasons
to be recorded, grant a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or a mining
lease, as the case may be, to an applicant whose application was received later in
preference to an applicant whose application was received earlier:
Provided that in respect of minerals specified in the First Schedule, prior approval of the
Central Government shall be obtained before passing any order under this sub-section.]
Granting of reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of coal or
lignite.
1
[11A. The Central Government may, for the purpose of granting reconnaissance permit,
prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of an area containing coal or lignite, select
through auction by competitive bidding on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed, a company engaged in -
(i) production of iron and steel;
(ii) generation of power;
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 2010, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 43,
dated 9.9.2010 (No. 34 of 2010).
S.O. 263(E) Ext. Part II Section 3 Sub Section (ii) Govt. dt.13 Feb. 2012 appoints 13th Feb 2012 as the
date of which the provisions of Section 11A shall come into force.12
(iii) washing of coal obtained from a mine; or
(iv) such other end-use as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify,
and the State Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or
mining lease in respect of coal or lignite to such company as selected through auction by
competitive bidding under this section:
Provided that the auction by competitive bidding shall not be applicable to an
containing coal or lignite –
area
(a) where such area is considered for allocation to a Government company or corporation
for mining or such other specified end-use;
(b) where such area is considered for allocation to a company or corporation that has
been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bids for tariff (including
Ultra Mega Power Projects).
Explanation- For the purposes of this section, “company” means a company as defined in
Section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 and includes a foreign company within the meaning of
Section 591 of that Act]
Registers of reconnaissance permits, prospecting licences and mining leases
12.
(1)
The State Government shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed form -
(a)a register of applications for prospecting licences;
(b)a register of prospecting licences;
1[(c)a register of applications for mining leases;
(d)a register of mining leases;
(e)a register of applications for reconnaissance permits; and
(f)a register of reconnaissance permits; ]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.1999 (No. 38 of 1999).13
in each of which shall be entered such particulars as may be prescribed.
(2)
Every such register shall be open to inspection by any person on payment of such
fee as the State Government may fix.
RULES FOR REGULATING THE GRANT OF RECONNAISSANCE
PERMITS, PROSPECTING LICENCES AND MINING LEASES
Power of Central Government to make rules in respect of minerals.
13.
(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules
for regulating the grant of 1[reconnaissance permits, prospecting licences and
mining leases] in respect of minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)the person by whom, and the manner in which, applications for
1
[reconnaissance permits, prospecting licences or mining leases] in
respect of land in which the minerals vest in the Government may be made
and the fees to be paid therefor;
(b)the time within which, and the form in which, acknowledgement of the
receipt of any such application may be sent;
(c)the matters which may be considered where applications in respect of the
same land are received on the same day;
(d)2
(e)the authority by which 1[reconnaissance permits, prospecting licences or
mining leases] in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the
Government may be granted;
[ The terms and conditions of auction by competitive bidding for
selection of the company under section 11A;]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
2
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
Inserted by MMDR Amendment Act, 2010 vide G.O.I Ext. Part II, Section-I No.43 dated 9.9.2010
(No.34 of 2010).14
(f)
(g)
the procedure for obtaining 1[a reconnaissance permit, a prospecting
licence or a mining lease] in respect of any land in which the minerals vest
in a person other than the Government and the terms on which, and the
conditions subject to which, such 2[a permit, licence or lease] may be
granted or renewed;
the terms on which, and the conditions subject to which, any other
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] may be
granted or renewed;
3
(h)the facilities to be afforded by holders of mining leases to persons deputed
by the Government for the purpose of undertaking research or training in
matters relating to mining operations;
(i)the fixing and collection of fees for 4[reconnaissance permits, prospecting
licences or mining leases], surface rent, security deposit, fines, other fees
or charges and the time within which and the manner in which the dead
rent or royalty shall be payable;
(j)the manner in which rights of third parties may be protected (whether by
payment of compensation or otherwise) in cases where any such party
may be prejudicially affected by reason of any 5[reconnaissance,
prospecting or mining operations];
(k)the grouping of associated minerals for the purposes of section 6;
(l)the manner in which, and the conditions subject to which, 1[a
reconnaissance permit, a prospecting licence or a mining lease] may be
transferred;
(m)the construction, maintenance and use of roads, power transmission lines,
tramways, railways, aerial ropeways, pipelines and the making of passages
for water for mining purposes on any land comprised in a mining lease;
(n)the form of registers to be maintained under this Act;
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.
3
Ibid.
4
Ibid.
5
Ibid.15
(o)(omitted);
(p)the reports and statements to be submitted by holders of 1[reconnaissance
permits or prospecting licences] or owners of mines and the authority to
which such reports and statements shall be submitted;
(q)the period within which applications for revision of any order passed by a
State Government or other authority in exercise of any power conferred
by or under this Act, may be made, the fees to be paid therefor and the
documents which shall accompany such applications and the manner in
which such applications shall be disposed of;
(qq)the manner in which rehabilitation of flora and other vegetation, such as
trees, shrubs and the like destroyed by reason of any prospecting or
mining operations shall be made in the same area or in any other area
selected by the Central Government (whether by way of reimbursement
of the cost of rehabilitation or otherwise) by the person holding the
prospecting licence or mining lease; and
(r)any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed under this Act.
Power of Central Government to make rules for the grant of prospecting licences or mining
leases in respect of territorial waters or continental shelf of India.
13A.
(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules
for the grant of prospecting licences or mining leases in respect of any minerals
underlying the ocean within the territorial waters or the continental shelf of India.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :-
(a)the conditions, limitations and restrictions subject to which such
prospecting licences or mining leases may be granted;
(b)regulation of exploration and exploitation of minerals within the territorial
waters or the continental shelf of India;
(c)ensuring that such exploration or exploitation does not interfere with
navigation; and
(d)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).16
[Sections 5 to 13] not to apply to minor minerals.
14.
The provisions of sections 5 to 13 (inclusive) shall not apply to quarry leases, mining
leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
Power of State Governments to make rules in respect of minor minerals
15.
(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules
for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral
concessions in respect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
(1A)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)the person by whom and the manner in which, applications for quarry
leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions may be made and the
fees to be paid therefor;
(b)the time within which, and the form in which, acknowledgement of the
receipt of any such applications may be sent;
(c)the matters which may be considered where applications in respect of the
same land are received within the same day;
(d)the terms on which, and the conditions subject to which and the authority
by which quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions may
be granted or renewed;
(e)the procedure for obtaining quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral
concessions;
(f)the facilities to be afforded by holders of quarry leases, mining leases or
other mineral concessions to persons deputed by the Government for the
purpose of undertaking research or training in matters relating to mining
operations;
(g)the fixing and collection of rent, royalty, fees, dead rent, fines or other
charges and the time within which and the manner in which these shall be
payable;
(h)the manner in which the rights of third parties may be protected (whether
by way of payment of compensation or otherwise) in cases where any such
party is prejudicially affected by reason of any prospecting or mining
operations;17
(i)the manner in which the rehabilitation of flora and other vegetation, such
as trees, shrubs and the like destroyed by reasons of any quarrying or
mining operations shall be made in the same area or in any other area
selected by the State Government (whether by way of reimbursement of
the cost of rehabilitation or otherwise) by the person holding the quarrying
or mining lease;
(j)the manner in which and the conditions subject to which, a quarry lease,
mining lease or other mineral concession may be transferred;
(k)the construction, maintenance and use of roads, power transmission lines,
tramways, railways, aerial ropeways, pipelines and the making of passage
for water for mining purposes on any land comprised in a quarry or
mining lease or other mineral concession;
(l)the form of registers to be maintained under this Act;
(m)the reports and statements to be submitted by holders of quarry or mining
leases or other mineral concessions and the authority to which such reports
and statements shall be submitted;
(n)the period within which and the manner in which and the authority to
which applications for revision of any order passed by any authority under
these rules may be made, the fees to be paid therefor, and the powers of
the revisional authority; and
(o)any other matter which is to be, or may be prescribed.
(2)Until rules are made under sub-section (1), any rules made by a State Government
regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions
in respect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
(3)The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any
rule made under subsection (1) shall pay royalty or dead rent, whichever is more
in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent,
manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee at the rate prescribed for the time
being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals:
Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty or dead rent in
respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.18
Power to modify mining leases granted before 25th Oct., 1949
16.
(1)
(a)All mining leases granted before the commencement of the Mines and
Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972 if in force
at the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and
Development) Amendment Act, 1994 shall be brought in conformity with
the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder within two years
from the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation
and Development) Amendment Act, 1994, or such further time as the
Central Government may, by general or special order, specify in this
behalf.
(b)Where the rights under any mining lease, granted by the proprietor of an
estate or tenure before the commencement of the Mines and Minerals
(Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972, have vested, on or
after the 25th day of October, 1949, in the State Government in pursuance
of the provisions of any Act of any Provincial or State Legislature which
provides for the acquisition of estates or tenures or provides for agrarian
reform, such mining lease shall be brought into conformity with the
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder within two years
from the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and
Development) Amendment Act, 1994 , or within such further time as the
Central Government may, by general or special order, specify in this
behalf.
(1A)Where any action is taken under clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (1) to bring
the period of any lease in conformity with the provisions of this Act and the rules
made thereunder, then notwithstanding anything contained in section 8, the period
of such lease shall continue to operate for a period of two years from the date of
bringing such lease in conformity with the provisions of this Act.
(2)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules
for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of sub-section (1) and in
particular such rules shall provide-
(a)for giving previous notice of the modification or alteration proposed to be
made in any existing mining lease to the lessee and where the lessor is not
the Central Government, also to the lessor and for affording him an
opportunity of showing cause against the proposal;
(b)for the payment of compensation to the lessee in respect of the reduction
of any area covered by the existing mining lease; and
(c)for the principles on which, the manner in which, and the authority by
which, the said compensation shall be determined.19
SPECIAL POWERS OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT TO UNDERTAKE
PROSPECTING OR MINING OPERATIONS IN CERTAIN CASES
Special powers of Central Government to undertake prospecting or mining operations in
certain lands.
17.
(1)The provisions of this section shall apply in respect of land in which the minerals
vest in the Government of a State or any other person.
(2)Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government, after
consultation with the State Government, may undertake 1[reconnaissance,
prospecting or mining operations] in any area not already held under any
2
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease], and where it
proposes to do so, it shall, by notification in the Official Gazette-
(a)specify the boundaries of such area;
(b)state whether 1[reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations] will be
carried out in the area; and
(c)specify the mineral or minerals in respect of which such operations will be
carried out.
(3)Where, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2), the Central
Government undertakes 3[reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations] in
any area, the Central Government shall be liable to pay 4[reconnaissance permit
fee or prospecting fee], royalty, surface rent or dead rent, as the case may be, at
the same rate at which it would have been payable under this Act, if such
3
[reconnaissance, prospecting or mining operations] had been undertaken by a
private person under a 5[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease].
(4)The Central Government, with a view to enabling it to exercise the powers
conferred on it by sub-section (2) may, after consultation with the State
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that no
6
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] shall be granted in
respect of any land specified in the notification.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
3
4
5
6
Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.20
Reservation of areas for purposes of conservation.
17A.
(1)The Central Government, with a view to conserving any mineral and after
consultation with the State Government, may reserve any area not already held
under any prospecting licence or mining lease and, where it proposes to do so, it
shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the boundaries of such area
and the mineral or minerals in respect of which such area will be reserved.
(1A)The Central Government may in consultation with the State Government, reserve
any area not already held under any prospecting licence or mining lease, for
undertaking prospecting or mining operations through a Government company or
corporation owned or controlled by it, and where it proposes to do so, it shall, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify the boundaries of such area and the
mineral or minerals in respect of which such area will be reserved.
(2)The State Government may, with the approval of the Central Government, reserve
any area not already held under any prospecting licence or mining lease, for
undertaking prospecting or mining operations through a Government company or
corporation owned or controlled by it and where it proposes to do so, it shall, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify the boundaries of such area and the
mineral or minerals in respect of which such areas will be reserved.
(3)Where in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section(1A) or sub-section (2)
the Central Government or the State Government as the case may be undertakes
prospecting or mining operations in any area in which the minerals vest in a
private person, it shall be liable to pay prospecting fee, royalty, surface rent or
dead rent, as the case may be, from time to time at the same rate at which it would
have been payable under this Act if such prospecting or mining operations had
been undertaken by a private person under prospecting licence or mining lease.
DEVELOPMENT OF MINERALS
Mineral Development.
18.
(1)It shall be the duty of the Central Government to take all such steps as may be
necessary for the conservation and systematic development of minerals in India
and for the protection of environment by preventing or controlling any pollution
which may be caused by prospecting or mining operations and for such purposes
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such
rules as it thinks fit.
(2)In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-21
(a)the opening of new mines and the regulation of mining operations in any
area;
(b)the regulation of the excavation or collection of minerals from any mine;
(c)the measures to be taken by owners of mines for the purpose of
beneficiation of ores, including the provision of suitable contrivances for
such purpose;
(d)the development of mineral resources in any area;
(e)the notification of all new borings and shaft sinkings and the preservation
of bore-hole records, and specimens of cores of all new bore-holes;
(f)the regulation of the arrangements for the storage of minerals and the
stocks thereof that may be kept by any person;
(g)the submission of samples of minerals from any mine by the owner thereof
and the manner in which and the authority to which such samples shall be
submitted; and the taking of samples of any minerals from any mine by
the State Government or any other authority specified by it in that behalf;
(h)the submission by owners of mines of such special or periodical returns
and reports as may be specified, and the form in which and the authority
to which such returns and reports shall be submitted;
(i)the regulation of prospecting operations;
(j)the employment of qualified geologists or mining engineers to supervise
prospecting or mining operations;
(k)the disposal or discharge of waste slime or tailings arising from any
mining or metallurgical operations carried out in a mine;
(l)the manner in which and the authority by which directions may be issued
to the owners of any mine to do or refrain from doing certain things in the
interest of conservation or systematic development of minerals or for the
protection of environment by preventing or controlling pollution which
may be caused by prospecting or mining operations;
(m)the maintenance and submission of such plans, registers or records as may
be specified by the Government;
(n)the submission of records or reports by persons carrying on prospecting or
mining operations regarding any research in mining or geology carried out
by them;22
(3)
(o)the facilities to be afforded by persons carrying out prospecting or mining
operations to persons authorised by the Central Government for the
purpose of undertaking research or training in matters relating to mining
or geology;
(p)the procedure for and the manner of imposition of fines for the
contravention of any of the rules framed under this section and the
authority who may impose such fines; and
(q)the authority to which, the period within which, the form and the manner
in which applications for revision of any order passed by any authority
under this Act and the rules made thereunder may be made, the fee to be
paid and the documents which should accompany such applications.
All rules made under this section shall be binding on the Government.
Power to authorise Geological Survey of India, etc. to make investigation.
18A.
(1)
Where the Central Government is of opinion that for the conservation and
development of minerals in India, it is necessary to collect as precise information
as possible with regard to any mineral available in or under any land in relation to
which any prospecting licence or mining lease has been granted, whether by the
State government or by any other person, the Central Government may authorise
the Geological Survey of India, or such other authority or agency as it may
specify in this behalf, to carry out such detailed investigations for the purpose of
obtaining such information as may be necessary:
Provided that in the cases of prospecting licences or mining leases granted by a State
Government, no such authorisation shall be made except after consultation with the State
Government.
(2)
On the issue of any authorisation under sub-section (1), it shall be lawful for the
Geological Survey of India or the specified authority or agency, and its servants
and workmen –
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
to enter upon such land,
to dig or bore into the sub-soil,
to do all other acts necessary to determine the extent of any mineral
available in or under such land,
to set out boundaries of the land in which any mineral is expected to be
found,23
(e)to mark such boundaries and line by placing marks,
(f)where otherwise the survey cannot be completed on the boundaries and
line marked, to cut down and clear away any part of any standing crop,
fence or jungle:
Provided that no such authority or agency shall enter into any building or upon any
enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling-house (except with the consent of the
occupier thereof) without previously giving such occupier at least seven days' notice in
writing of its intention to do so.
(3)Whenever any action of the nature specified in sub-section (2) is to be taken, the
Central Government shall, before or at the time when such action is taken, pay or
tender payment for all necessary damage which is likely to be caused, and in case
of dispute as to the sufficiency of the amount so paid or tendered or as to the
person to whom it should be paid or tendered, the Central Government shall refer
the dispute to the principal civil court of original jurisdiction having jurisdiction
over the land in question.
(4)The fact that there exists any such dispute as is referred to in sub-section (3) shall
not be a bar to the taking of any action under sub-section (2).
(5)After the completion of the investigation, the Geological Survey of India or the
specified authority or agency by which the investigation was made shall submit to
the Central Government a detailed report indicating therein the extent and nature
of any mineral which lies deposited in or under the land.
(6)The costs of the investigation made under this section shall be borne by the
Central Government.
Provided that where the State Government or other person in whom the minerals are
vested or the holder of any prospecting licence or mining lease applies to the Central
Government to furnish to it or him a copy of the report submitted under sub-section (5),
that State Government or other person or the holder of a prospecting licence or mining
lease, as the case may be, shall bear such reasonable part of the costs of investigation as
the Central Government may specify in this behalf and shall, on payment of such part of
the costs of investigation, be entitled to receive from the Central Government a true copy
of the report submitted to it under sub-section (5).24
MISCELLANEOUS
Prospecting licences and mining leases to be void if in contravention of Act.
19.
Any 1[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] granted, renewed or
acquired in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any rules or orders made
thereunder shall be void and of no effect.
Explanation:- Where a person has acquired more than one 1[reconnaissance permit,
prospecting licence or mining lease] and the aggregate area covered by such 2[permits,
licences or leases], as the case may be, exceeds the maximum area permissible under
section 6, only that 1[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] the
acquisition of which has resulted in such maximum area being exceeded shall be deemed
to be void.
Act and rules to apply to all renewals of prospecting licences and mining leases.
20.
The provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall apply in relation to the
renewal after the commencement of this Act of any prospecting licence or mining lease
granted before such commencement as they apply in relation to the renewal of a
prospecting licence or mining lease granted after such commencement.
Penalties.
21.
3
[(1)Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A) of
section 4 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
two years, or with fine which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees, or with
both.]
(2)Any rule made under any provision of this Act may provide that any
contravention thereof shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or
with both, and in the case of a continuing contravention, with an additional fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which such
contravention continues after conviction for the first such contravention.
(3)Where any person trespasses into any land in contravention of the provisions of
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.
3
Ibid.25
sub-section (1) of section 4, such trespasser may be served with an order of
eviction by the State Government or any authority authorised in this behalf by that
Government and the State Government or such authorised authority may, if
necessary, obtain the help of the police to evict the trespasser from the land.
1
[(4)Whenever any person raises, transports or causes to be raised or transported,
without any lawful authority, any mineral from any land, and, for that purpose,
uses any tool, equipment, vehicle or any other thing, such mineral, tool,
equipment, vehicle or any other thing shall be liable to be seized by an officer or
authority specially empowered in this behalf.
(4A)Any mineral, tool, equipment, vehicle or any other thing seized under sub-section
(4), shall be liable to be confiscated by an order of the court competent to take
cognizance of the offence under sub-section (1) and shall be disposed of in
accordance with the directions of such court. ]
(5)Whenever any person raises, without any lawful authority, any mineral from any
land, the State Government may recover from such person the mineral so raised,
or, where such mineral has already been disposed of, the price thereof, and may
also recover from such person, rent, royalty or tax, as the case may be, for the
period during which the land was occupied by such person without any lawful
authority.
(6)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,
an offence under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.
Cognizance of offences.
22.
No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or any rules
made thereunder except upon complaint in writing made by a person authorised in this
behalf by the Central Government or the State Government.
Offences by companies.
23.
(1)
If the person committing an offence under this Act or any rules made thereunder
is a company, every person who at the time the offence was committed was in
charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of
the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).26
any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under
this Act has been committed with the consent or connivance of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly
Explanation - For the purposes of this section,
(a)
(b)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals;
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
Compounding of offences.
23A.
(1)
Any offence punishable under this Act or any rule made thereunder may, either
before or after the institution of the prosecution, be compounded by the person
authorised under section 22 to make a complaint to the court with respect to that
offence, on payment to that person, for credit to the Government, of such sum as
that person may specify:
Provided that in the case of an offence punishable with fine only, no such sum shall
exceed the maximum amount of fine which may be imposed for that offence.
(2)
Where an offence is compounded under sub-section (1), no proceeding or further
proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken against the offender in respect of
the offence so compounded, and the offender, if in custody, shall be released
forthwith.
Power to search.
23B.
If any gazetted officer of the Central or a State Government authorised by the Central
Government 1[or a State Government, as the case may be,] in this behalf by general or
special order has reason to believe that any mineral has been raised in contravention of
the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder or any document or thing in relation
to such mineral is secreted in any place 2[or vehicle,] he may search for such mineral,
document or thing and the provisions of section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 shall apply to every such search.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid.27
1
[Power of State Government to make rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation
and storage of minerals.
23C.
(1)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for
preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for the
purposes connected therewith.
(2)In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(3)
(a)establishment of check-posts for checking of minerals under transit;
(b)establishment of weigh-bridges to measure the quantity of mineral being
transported;
(c)regulation of mineral being transported from the area granted under a
prospecting licence or a mining lease or a quarrying licence or a permit,
in whatever name the permission to excavate minerals, has been given;
(d)inspection, checking and search of minerals at the place of excavation or
storage or during transit;
(e)maintenance of registers and forms for the purposes of these rules;
(f)the period within which and the authority to which applications for
revision of any order passed by any authority be preferred under any rule
made under this section and the fees to be paid therefor and powers of
such authority for disposing of such applications; and
(g)any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed for the
purpose of prevention of illegal mining, transportation and storage of
minerals.
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 30, the Central Government shall
have no power to revise any order passed by a State Government or any of its
authorised officers or any authority under the rules made under sub-sections (1)
and (2).]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Inserted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).28
Power of entry and inspection.
24.
(1)
(2)
For the purpose of ascertaining the position of the working, actual or prospective,
of any mine or abandoned mine or for any other purpose connected with this Act
or the rules made thereunder, any person authorised by the 1[Central Government
or a State Government] in this behalf, by general 2[ omitted ] order, may-
(a)enter and inspect any mine;
(b)survey and take measurements in any such mine;
(c)weigh, measure or take measurements of the stocks of minerals lying at
any mine;
(d)examine any document, book, register, or record in the possession or
power of any person having the control of, or connected with, any mine
and place marks of identification thereon, and take extracts from or make
copies of such document, book, register or record;
(e)order the production of any such document, book, register, record, as is
referred to in clause (d); and
(f)examine any person having the control of, or connected with, any mine.
Every person authorised by the 3[Central Government or a State Government]
under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning
of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, and every person to whom an order or
summons is issued by virtue of the powers conferred by clause (e) or clause (f) of
that sub-section shall be legally bound to comply with such order or summons, as
the case may be.
Rights and liabilities of a holder of prospecting licence or mining lease.
24A.
(1)
On the issue of a 4 [reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease] under this Act and the rules made thereunder, it shall be lawful for the
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1,No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Omitted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51, dated
20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
3
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
4
Ibid.29
1
[holder of such permit, licence or lease], his agents or his servants or workmen to
enter the lands over which 2 [such permit, lease or licence had been granted] at all
times during its currency and carry out all such 3[reconnaissance, prospecting or
mining operations] as may be prescribed:
Provided that no person shall enter into any building or upon an enclosed court or
garden attached to a dwelling-house (except with the consent of the occupier
thereof) without previously giving such occupier at least seven days' notice in
writing of his intention to do so.
(2)The holder of a 4[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease]
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be liable to pay compensation in such manner
as may be prescribed to the occupier of the surface of the land granted under
5
[such permit, licence or lease] for any loss or damage which is likely to arise or
has arisen from or in consequence of the 6[reconnaissance, mining or prospecting
operations].
(3)The amount of compensation payable under sub-section (2) shall be
determined by the State Government in the manner prescribed.
Recovery of certain sums as arrears of land revenue.
25.
(1)Any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government under this Act or
the rules made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any
7
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] may, on a certificate
of such officer as may be specified by the State Government in this
behalf by general or special order, be recovered in the same manner as an arrear
of land revenue.
(2)Any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government either under this
Act or any rule made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any
7
[reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease] may, on a certificate
of such officer as may be specified by the State Government in this behalf by
general or special order, be recovered in the same manner as if it were an arrear of
land revenue and every such sum which becomes due to the Government after
the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II , Section 1, No.51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).
2
Ibid
3
Ibid.
4
Ibid.
5
Ibid.
6
Ibid.
7
Ibid.30
Amendment Act, 1972, together with the interest due thereon shall be a first
charge on the assets of the holder of the 1[reconnaissance permit, prospecting
licence or mining lease], as the case may be.
Delegation of powers.
26.
(1)
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that
any power exercisable by it under this Act may, in relation to such matters and
subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification be
exercisable also by -
(a)Such officer or authority subordinate to the Central Government; or
(b)Such State Government or such officer or authority subordinate to a State
Government, as may be specified in the notification.
(2)The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any
power exercisable by it under this Act may, in relation to such matters and subject
to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be exercisable
also by such officer or authority subordinate to the State Government as may be
specified in the notification.
(3)Any rules made by the Central government under this Act may confer powers and
impose duties or authorise the conferring of powers and imposition of duties upon
any State Government or any officer or authority subordinate thereto.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
27.
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person for anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.
Rules and notifications to be laid before parliament and certain rules to be approved by
parliament.
28.
Every rule and every notification made by the Central Government under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament
while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the
session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid,
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or notification or both
Houses agree that the rule or notification should not be made, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
(1)
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).31
effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule or notification.
(2)Without prejudice to the generality of the rule making power vested in the Central
Government, no rules made with reference to clause (c) of sub-section (2) of
section 16 shall come into force until they have been approved, whether with or
without modifications, by each House of Parliament.
(3)Every rule and every notification made by the State Government under this Act
shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State
Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or where such Legislature consists
one House, before that House.
Existing rules to continue.
29.
All rules made or purporting to have been made under the Mines and Minerals
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1948, shall, in so far as they relate to matters for
which provision is made in this Act and are not inconsistent therewith, be deemed to have
been made under this Act as if this Act had been in force on the date on which such rules
were made and shall continue in force unless and until they are superseded by any rules
made under this Act.
Power of revision of Central Government.
30.
The Central Government may, of its own motion or on application made within the
prescribed time by an aggrieved party, revise any order made by a State Government or
other authority in exercise of the powers conferred on it by or under this Act with respect
to any mineral other than a minor mineral.
Special provisions relating to mining leases for coal granted before 25th October, 1949.
30A.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 9 and sub-section (1) of section 16 shall not apply to or in relation to mining
leases granted before the 25th day of October, 1949, in respect of coal, but the Central
Government, if it is satisfied that it is expedient so to do, may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that all or any of the said provisions (including any rules made
under sections 13 and 18) shall apply to or in relation to such leases subject to such
exceptions and modifications, if any, as may be specified in that or in any subsequent
notification.
Relaxation of rules in special cases.
31.
The Central Government may, if it is of opinion that in the interests of mineral
development it is necessary so to do, by order in writing and for reasons to be recorded,32
authorise in any case the grant, renewal or transfer of any 1[reconnaissance permit,
prospecting licence or mining lease], or the working of any mine for the purpose of
searching for or winning any mineral, on terms and conditions different from those laid
down in the rules made under section 13.
32.
[Amendments to Act 53 of 1948] Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of
1960), S. 2 and Sch. I.
Validation of certain acts and indemnity.
33.
All acts of executive authority done, proceedings taken and sentences passed under the
Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948, with respect to the
regulation of mines and the development of minerals during the period commencing on
the 26th day of January, 1950, and ending with the date of commencement of this Act by
the Government or by any officer of the Government or by any other authority, in the
belief or purported belief that the acts, proceedings of sentences were being done, taken
or passed under the said Act, shall be as valid and operative as if they had been done,
taken or passed in accordance with law, and no suit or other legal proceeding shall be
maintained or continued against any person whatsoever, on the ground that any such acts,
proceedings or sentences were not done, taken or passed in accordance with law.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by M M (R D) Amendment Act, 1999, vide G.O.I. Ext. Part II, Section 1, No. 51,
dated 20.12.99 (No. 38 of 1999).33
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
[See section 4(3), 5(1), 7(2) and 8(2)]
SPECIFIED MINERALS
PART A. Hydro Carbons Energy Minerals
1.
Coal and Lignite.
PART B. Atomic Minerals
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Beryl and other beryllium-bearing minerals.
Lithium-bearing minerals.
Minerals of the "rare earths" group containing Uranium and Thorium.
Niobium-bearing minerals.
Phosphorites and other phosphatic ores containing Uranium.
Pitchblende and other Uranium ores.
1
[Titanium bearing minerals and ores (ilmenite, rutile and leucoxene) ].
Tantalum-bearing minerals.
Uraniferous allanite, monazite and other thorium minerals.
Uranium bearing tailings left over from ores after extraction of copper and gold,
ilmenite and other titanium ores.
1
[Zirconium bearing minerals and ores including zircon.]
PART C. Metallic and Non-Metallic Minerals
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
Asbestos.
Bauxite.
Chrome ore.
Copper ore.
Gold.
Iron ore.
Lead.
2
[ Omitted ]
Manganese ore.
Precious stones.
Zinc.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
Substituted by MM(RD) Amendment Act, 1999, Vide G.O.I Ext. Part II, Section I, No. 51,
dated 20.12.1999(No. 38 of 1999).
2
Omitted by MM(RD) Amendment Act, 1999, Vide G.O.I Ext. Part II, Section I, No. 51,
dated 20.12.1999(No. 38 of 1999).34
1
[THE SECOND SCHEDULE
(See section 9)
RATES OF ROYALTY
RATES OF ROYALTY IN RESPECT OF MINERALS AT ITEM 1 TO 9, 11 TO 37 AND
39 TO 51 APPLICABLE IN ALL STATES AND UNION TERRITORIES EXCEPT THE
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
1. Apatite and Rock Phosphate :
(i)Apatite :
(ii)Rock Phosphate :
(a) Above 25
per cent P2O5
(b) Up to 25 per
cent P2O5
2. Asbestos :
(a) Chrysotile
(b) Amphibole
3. Barytes
4. Bauxite and Laterite
5. Brown Ilmenite
(Leucoxene),
Ilmenite, Rutile and Zircon
1
Substituted by G.S.R.574 (E) dated 13.8.2009
Five per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Eleven per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Six per cent of sale price on
ad valorem basis.
Eight hundred
tonne.
eighty rupees per
Fifteen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Five and half per cent of sale price on
ad valorem basis.
(a) Zero point five zero per cent of
London
Metal
Exchange
Aluminium metal price chargeable
on the contained aluminium metal
in ore produced for those
dispatched for use in alumina and
aluminium metal extraction.
(b) Twenty five percent of sale price
on ad valorem basis for those
dispatched for use other than
alumina and aluminium metal
extraction and export.
Two per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.35
6. Cadmium
Fifteen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Fifteen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
7. Calcite
8. China clay/Kaolin
(including ball clay,
white shale and white clay) :
(a) Crude
(b) Processed
(including washed)
9. Chromite
Eight per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Ten per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Ten per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
“10.* COAL ( including Lignite )
A. Coal produced in all the States and Union territories except the State of West Bengal.
(1) Royalty on Coal:
The rate of royalty on coal shall be @ 14% (Fourteen percent) ad-valorem on price of
coal, as reflected in the invoice, excluding taxes, levies and other charges.
(2) Royalty on Lignite:
The rate of royalty on lignite shall be @ 6% (Six percent) ad-valorem on transfer
price of lignite, as ratified by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC)
and for lignite sold to other consumers, the royalty shall be @ 6% (Six percent) ad
valorem on the price of lignite as reflected in the invoice, excluding taxes, levies and
other charges.
(3) Royalty on coal and lignite produced from captive mines:
For calculating royalty on coal and lignite produced from captive mines, the price of
coal and lignite shall mean the basic pithead price of Run of Mine (ROM) coal and
lignite, as notified by the Coal India Ltd. / Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. /
Neyveli Lignite Corporation, for similar Gross Calorific Value (GCV) of coal or
lignite for the mines, nearest to that captive mine;
Provided that for the coal and lignite produced from the coal and lignite blocks,
allocated under the Government dispensation route for commercial use, the respective
ad-valorem royalty shall be applicable on the price notified by the respective State
Governments.
__________________________________________________________________
* Substituted by G.S.R.349 (E) dated 10.5.2012.36
(4) Adjustment of royalty against levying of cess:
For the States other than West Bengal, for the levy of cess or other taxes specific to
coal bearing lands, the royalty allowed shall be adjusted for the local cesses or such
taxes, so as to limit the overall revenue yield.
B. Coal produced in the State of West Bengal.
Group
Group – I
Quality of Coal
Royalty on coal in Rupees per
tonne
Steel Gr-I
Seven rupees only per tonne
Steel Gr.II
Washery-I
Direct Feed
Group – II
Washery-II
Six rupees and fifty paise only per
tonne
Washery-III
Semi Coking Gr-I
Semi Coking Gr-II
Group-III
Non-Coking Coal having
range of 6701 and aboveGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal having
range of 6401-6700)GCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 6101-6400GCV(Kcal/kg)
having
Washery-IV
Five rupees and fifty paise only
per tonne
Non-Coking Coal
range of 5801-6100havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 5501-5800havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 5201-5500havingGCV(Kcal/kg)37
Group-IV
Group-V
Non-Coking Coal
range of 4901-5200havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 4601-4900havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 4301-4600havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 4001-4300havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 3701-4000havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 3401-3700havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Non-Coking Coal
range of 3101-3400havingGCV(Kcal/kg)
Four rupees and thirty paise only
per tonne
Two rupees and fifty paise only
per tonne
Non-Coking Coal having GCV =<3100
11. Columbite-tantaliteTen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis
12. CopperFour point two per cent of London
Metal Exchange copper metal price
chargeable on the contained copper
metal in ore produced.
13. DiamondEleven point five per cent of sale price
on ad valorem basis.
14. DolomiteSixty-three rupees per tonne.
15. FelsparTwelve per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis
16. Fireclay
(including plastic, pipe, lithomargic and
natural pozzolanic clay)Twelve per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.38
17. Fluorspar
(also called fluorite)
18. Garnet :
(a) Abrasive
(b) Gem
19.Gold :
(a)Primary
(b)By-product
gold
20. Graphite :
(a) with 40 per cent or more fixed carbon
Six point five per cent of sale price on
ad valorem basis
Three per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Ten per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis
Two per cent of London Bullion
Market Association Price (commonly
referred to as “London Price”)
chargeable on the contained gold
metal in ore produced.
Three point three per cent of London
Bullion Market Association Price
(commonly referred to as “London
Price”) chargeable on by-product gold
metal actually produced.
Two per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
(b)with less than 40 per cent fixed carbonTwelve per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis
21. GypsumTwenty per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
22. Iron Ore :
(lumps, fines & concentrates all grades)
Ten per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
23. Lead
Seven per cent of London Metal
Exchange lead metal price chargeable
on the contained lead metal in ore
produced.
Twelve point seven per cent of
London Metal Exchange lead metal
price chargeable on the contained lead
metal in the concentrate produced.
24. Limestone :
(a)L.D. grade(less than one and half per cent Seventy two rupees per tonne.
silica content)
(b)Others
Sixty three rupees per tonne39
25. Lime kankarSixty three rupees per tonne
26. LimeshellSixty three rupees per tonne
27. MagnesiteThree per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
28. Manganese Ore :
(a)Ore of all grades
(b)Concentrates
Four point two per cent of sale price
on ad valorem basis.
One point four per cent of sale price
on ad valorem basis.
29. Crude Mica, Waste Mica
and Scrap MicaFour per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
30. MonaziteOne hundred and twenty five rupees
per tonne.
31. NickelZero point one two per cent of London
Metal Exchange nickel metal price
chargeable on contained nickel metal
in ore produced.
32. OchreTwenty rupees per tonne.
33. PyritesTwo per cent of sale price on
ad valorem basis.
34. PyrophylliteTwenty per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
35. QuartzFifteen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
36. RubyTen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
37. Silica sand, Moulding sand and QuartziteEight per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
38. ** Sand for StowingThree rupees per tonne
39. SeleniteTen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.40
40. Sillimanite
41. Silver
(a) By-product
(b)Primary silver
42. Slate
43. Talc, Steatite and
Soapstone
44. Tin
45. Tungsten
46. *** Uranium
47. Vanadium
48. Vermiculite
49. Wollastonite
50.Zinc
Two and half per cent of sale price on
ad valorem basis.
Seven per cent of London Metal
Exchange Price chargeable on by-
product
silver
metal
actually
produced.
Five per cent of London Metal
Exchange
silver
metal
price
chargeable on the contained silver
metal in ore produced.
Forty five rupees per tonne
Eighteen per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Seven point five per cent of London
Metal Exchange
tin metal price
chargeable on the contained tin metal
in ore produced
Twenty rupees per unit per cent of
contained WO3 per tonne of ore and
on pro rata basis.
Royalty on mineral uranium at the rate
of two per cent of the compensation
amount received by M/s. Uranium
Corporation of India Limited (UCIL),
for the mineral uranium and the total
amount of royalty will be apportioned
among the different states on the basis
of data provided by Department of
Atomic Energy.
Twenty per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Three per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Twelve per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Eight per cent of London Metal
Exchange zinc metal price on ad
valorem basis chargeable on contained
zinc metal in ore produced.41
Eight point four per cent of London
Metal Exchange zinc metal price on
ad valorem basis chargeable on
contained zinc metal in concentrate
produced.
51. All other minerals
not here-in-before
specified [Agate, Chalk, Clay(Others),
Corundum, Diaspore, Dunite, Felsite,
Fuschite-Quartzite, Kyanite, Jasper,
Perlite, Rock Salt, Shale, Pyroxenite,
etc.]
Ten per cent of sale price on ad
valorem basis.
Explanation :
1. For the purpose of grading of coal the specification of each grade of the coal shall be as
prescribed under rule 3 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004.
2. Rates of royalty in respect of item No.10 relating to Coal including Lignite as revised vide
notification number G.S.R. 349 (E), dated the 10th May, 2012, of the Government of India in the
Ministry of Coal shall remain in force until revised through a separate notification by the
Ministry of Coal.
** Rates of Royalty in respect of item 38 relating to Sand for Stowing as revised vide notification
number G.S.R. 214(E) dated the 11th April, 1997 will remain in force until revised through a
separate notification by the Department of Coal.
*** Rates of royalty in respect of item No.46 relating to Uranium as revised vide notification
number G.S.R. 96(E), dated the 13th February, 2009 will remain in force until revised.
Note: The rates of royalty for the State of West Bengal in respect of minerals except the mineral
specified against item number 10 shall remain the same as specified in the notification of the
Government of India in the Ministry of Steel and Mines (Department of Mines) number G.S.R.
458(E), dated the 5th May, 1987 till the outcome of litigation pending in the Supreme Court of
India.42
1
THE THIRD SCHEDULE
(See Section 9A)
RATES OF DEAD RENT
1. Rate of dead rent applicable to the leases granted for low value minerals are as under :
Rates of dead rent in rupees per hectare per annum
From second years of lease
Third year and fourth
Fifth year onward
year
200
500
1000
2. Two times the rate specified under (1) above in case of lease granted for medium value
mineral(s).
3. Three times the rates specified under (1) above in case of lease granted for high value
mineral(s).
4. Four times the rates specified under (1) above in case of lease granted for precious metals
and stones.
Note :
1. For the purpose of this notification –
(a) “precious metals and stones” means gold, silver, diamond, ruby, sapphire and emerald;
(b) “high value minerals” means semi-precious stones (agate, gem garnet), corundum, copper,
lead, zinc, asbestos (chrysotile variety) and mica;
(c) “medium value minerals” means chromite, manganese ore, kyanite, sillimanite,
vermiculite, magnesite, wollastonite, perlite, diaspore, apatite, rock phosphate, fluorite
(fluorspar) and barytes;
(d) “low value minerals” means minerals other than precious metals and stones, high value
minerals and medium value minerals;
2. The rates of dead rent for the State of West Bengal shall remain the same as specified in the
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel and Mines (Department of
Mines) No. G.S.R. 458(E), dated the 5th May, 1987” till the outcome of pending litigation in the
Supreme Court of India.
1
Substituted by GSR 575(E) dt.13.8.2009