THE COAL MINES (NATIONALISATION) ACT, 1973
____________
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
____________
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
1. Short title and commencement.
1A. Declaration as to expediency of Union control.
2. Definitions.
CHAPTER II
ACQUISITION OF THE RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF COAL MINES
3. Acquisition of rights of owners in respect of coal mines.
3A. Mining operation by company and others.
4. Central Government to be the lessee of the State Government.
5. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a Government company.
6. Properties vested in the Central Government to be freed from mortgages, etc.
7. Central Government or Government company not to be liable for prior liabilities.
CHAPTER III
PAYMENT OF AMOUNT
8. Payment of amount to owners of coal mines.
9. Payment of further amount.
10. Income derived by the owners of coal mines after the appointed day to be refunded to the Central
Government.
CHAPTER IV
MANAGEMENT, ETC., OF COAL MINES
11. Management, etc., of coal mines.
12. Duty of persons in charge of management of coal mines to deliver all assets, etc.
13. Accounts and audit.
CHAPTER V
PROVISIONS RELATING TO EMPLOYEES OF COAL MINES
14. Liability of officer or other employee of a coal mine for transfer to any other coal mine.
15. Provident and other funds.
16. Superannuation fund, etc., to be distributed to employees whose employment becomes terminated
under this Act.
1CHAPTER VI
COMMISSIONER OF PAYMENTS
SECTIONS
17. Commissioner of Payments to be appointed.
18. Payment by the Central Government to the Commissioner.
19. Statement of accounts in respect of the period of management by the Central Government, etc.
19A. Validation of certain collections.
20. Claims to be made to the Commissioner.
21. Priority of claims in relation to arrears of provident fund, etc.
22. Priority in relation to other claims.
23. Admission or rejection of claims.
23A. Application of sections 5 and 12 of the Limitation Act.
24. Disbursement of money by the Commissioner to claimants.
24A. Interest on admitted claims.
25. Recovery of excess payments made by Central Government or Custodian.
25A. Notice to owners of coal mines and managing contractors, etc.
26. Disbursement of amounts to the owners of coal mines.
27. Undisbursed of unclaimed amounts to be deposited to the general revenue account.
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS
28. Effect of this Act on other laws.
29. Contracts to cease to have effect unless ratified by Government.
30. Penalties.
31. Offences by companies.
32. Mining companies not to be wound up by the court.
33. Delegation of powers.
34. Power to make rules.
35. Power to remove difficulties.
THE SCHEDULE.
2THE COAL MINES (NATIONALISATION) ACT, 1973
ACT NO. 26 OF 1973
[30th May, 1973.]
An Act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the right, title and interest of the owners
in respect of the coal mines specified in the Schedule with a view to re-organising and
reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational, co-ordinated and scientific
development and utilisation of coal resources consistent with the growing requirements of the
country, in order that the ownership and control of such resources are vested in the State and
thereby so distributed as best to subserve the common good, and for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twenty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the Coal Mines (Nationalisation)
Act, 1973.
(2) The provisions of sections 30 and 31 shall come into force at once and the remaining provisions of
this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of May, 1973.
1
[1A. Declaration as to expediency of Union control.—(1) It is hereby declared that it is expedient
in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation and development of coal
mines to the extent hereinafter provided in sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 3 2[, section 3A] and
sub-section (2) of section 30.
(2) The declaration contained in sub-section (1) is in addition to, and not in derogation of, the
declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957
(67 of 1957).]
2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “appointed day” means the 1st day of May, 1973;
(b) “coal mine” means a mine in which there exists one or more seams of coal;
(c) “company” means a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956),
and includes a foreign company within the meaning of section 591 of that Act;
(d) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Payments appointed under section 17;
(e) “Custodian” means the Custodian appointed under sub-section (2) of section 11, to take over,
or carry on, the management of a coal mine;
(f) “Government company” has the meaning assigned to it by section 617 of the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956);
(g) “managing contractor” means the person, or body of persons, who, with the previous consent,
in writing, of the State Government, has entered into an arrangement, contract or understanding, with
the owner of a coal mine under which the operations of the coal mine are substantially controlled by
such person or body of persons;
1. Ins. by Act 67 of 1976, s. 2 (w.e.f. 29-4-1976).
2. Ins. by Act 11 of 2015, s. 28 and Schedule IV (w.e.f. 21-10-2014).
3(h) “mine” means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or
obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on, and includes—
(i) all borings and bore holes;
(ii) all shafts, whether in the course of being sunk or not;
(iii) all levels and inclined planes in the course of being driven;
(iv) all open cast workings;
(v) all conveyors or aerial ropeways provided for bringing into or removal from a mine of
minerals or other articles or for the removal of refuse therefrom;
(vi) all lands, buildings, works, adits, levels, planes, machinery and equipments, instruments,
stores, vehicles, railways, tramways and sidings in, or adjacent to, a mine and used for the
purposes of the mine;
(vii) all workshops (including buildings, machinery, instruments, stores, equipment of such
workshops and the lands on which such workshops stand) in, or adjacent to, a mine and used
substantially for the purposes of the mine or a number of mines under the same management;
(viii) all coal belonging to the owner of the mine, whether in stock or in transit, and all coal
under production in a mine;
(ix) all power stations in a mine or operated primarily for supplying electricity for the purpose
of working the mine or a number of mines under the same management;
(x) all lands, buildings and equipments belonging to the owner of the mine, and in, adjacent to
or situated on the surface of, the mine where the washing of coal obtained from the mine or
manufacture, therefrom, of coke is carried on;
(xi) all lands and buildings [other than those referred to in sub-clause (x)], wherever situated,
if solely used for the location of the management, sale or liaison offices, or for the residence of
officers and staff, of the mine;
1
[(xii) all other fixed assets, movable and immovable, belonging to the owner of a mine,
wherever situated, and current assets, belonging to a mine, whether within its premises or outside.
Explanation.—The expression “current assets” does not include,—
(a) dues representing the sale of coal and coal products effected at any time before the
appointed day and outstanding immediately before the said day;
(b) dues from the Coal Board, established under section 4 of the Coal Mines
(Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), prior to the repeal of the
said Act, with respect to any period before the appointed day;
(c) dues from sundry debtors, loans and advances to other parties and investments, not
being investments in the coal mine;
(d) security deposits made by the owners with the Coal Controller appointed by the
Central Government or with the Railways for the fulfilment of contracts or with a State
Electricity Board for the payment of bills;
(e) earnest money deposited by the owners with the Railways for obtaining contracts;]
(i) “Mineral Concession Rules” means the rules, for the time being in force, made under the
Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957);
1. Subs. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 10, for sub-clause (xii) (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
4(j) “mining company” means a company owning a coal mine, and in relation to a foreign
company within the meaning of section 591 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the undertaking
of that company in India;
(k) “notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(l) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(m) “specified date” means such date as the Central Government may, for the purpose of any
provision of this Act, by notification, specify; and different dates may be specified for different
provisions of this Act;
(n) words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Coal Mines
(Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), have the meanings, respectively,
assigned to them in that Act;
(o) words and expressions used herein and not defined in this Act or in the Coal Mines
(Conservation, Safety and Development) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), but defined in the Mines Act, 1952
(35 of 1952), have the meanings, respectively, assigned to them in the Mines Act, 1952.
CHAPTER II
ACQUISITION OF THE RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF COAL MINES
3. Acquisition of rights of owners in respect of coal mines.—(1) On the appointed day, the right,
title and interest of the owners in relation to the coal mines specified in the Schedule shall stand
transferred to, and shall vest absolutely in, the Central Government free from all incumbrances.
1
*
*
*
*
*
2
[(3) On and from the commencement of section 3 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment
Act, 1976 (67 of 1976),—
(a) no person, other than—
(i) the Central Government or a Government, company or a corporation owned, managed or
controlled by the Central Government, or
(ii) a person to whom a sub-lease, referred to in the proviso to clause (c), has been granted by
any such Government, company or corporation, or
3
[(iii) a company engaged in—
(1) the production of iron and steel,
(2) generation of power,
(3) washing of coal obtained from a mine, or
(4) such other end use as the Central Government may, by notification, specify,]
shall carry on coal mining operation, in India, in any form;
(b) excepting the mining leases granted before such commencement in favour of the Government,
company or corporation, referred to in clause (a), and any sub-lease granted by any such Government,
company or corporation, all other mining leases and sub-leases in force immediately before such
commencement, shall, in so far as they relate to the winning or mining of coal, stand terminated;
1. Sub-section (2) omitted by Act 57 of 1986, s. 11 (w.e.f. 1-6-1973).
2. Ins. by Act 67 of 1976, s. 3 (w.e.f. 29-4-1976).
3. Subs. by Act 47 of 1993, s. 2, for sub-clause (iii) (w.e.f. 9-6-1993).
5(c) no lease for winning or mining coal shall be granted in favour of any person other than the
Government, company or corporation, referred to in clause (a):
Provided that the Government, company or corporation to whom a lease for winning or mining
coal has been granted may grant a sub-lease to any person in any area on such terms and conditions as
may be specified in the instrument granting the sub-lease, if the Government, company or corporation
is satisfied that—
(i) the reserves of coal in the area are in isolated small pockets or are not sufficient for
scientific and economical development in a co-ordinated and integrated manner, and
(ii) the coal produced by the sub-lessee will not be required to be transported by rail.
(4) Where a mining lease stands terminated under sub-section (3), it shall be lawful for the Central
Government or a Government, company or corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government
to obtain, 1*** a prospecting licence or a mining lease in respect of the whole or part of the land covered
by the mining lease which stands so terminated.]
2
[(5) If, after the appointed day, the Central Government is satisfied, whether from any information
received by it or otherwise, that there has been any error, omission or misdescription in relation to the
particulars of a coal mine included in the Schedule or the name and address of the owner of any such coal
mine, it may, by notification, correct such error, omission or misdescription and on the issue of such
notification, the relevant entries in the Schedule shall be, and shall be deemed always to have been,
corrected accordingly:
Provided that no such correction in relation to the ownership of a coal mine shall be made where such
ownership is in dispute.]
3
[3A. Mining operation by company and others.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, any person being—
(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such company
or corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, or
any other company incorporated in India; or
(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more companies,
may carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own consumption, sale or for any
other purpose in accordance with the prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government may, with a view to rationalise such coal mines so as to ensure the
coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources consistent with the growing
requirements of the country, from time to time, prescribe—
(i) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location;
(ii) the minimum size of the coal mine or coal bearing areas;
(iii) such other conditions,
which in the opinion of that Government may be necessary for the purpose of coal mining operations
or mining for sale by a company.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “company” means a company as defined in clause
(20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).]
1. Certain words, brackets and figures omitted by 57 of 1986, s. 11 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
2. Ins. by s. 11, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
3. Ins. by Act 11 of 2015, s. 28 and Schedule IV (w.e.f. 21-10-2014).
64. Central Government to be the lessee of the State Government.—(1) Where the rights of an
owner under any mining lease granted, or deemed to have been granted, in relation to a coal mine, by a
State Government or any other person, vest in the Central Government under section 3, the Central
Government shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee of the State
Government or such other person, as the case may be, in relation to such coal mine 1[as if a fresh mining
lease] in relation to such coal mine had been granted to the Central Government and the period of such
lease shall be 2[the maximum period] for which such lease could have been granted by the State
Government or such other person under the Mineral Concession Rules, and thereupon all the rights under
such mining lease, including surface, underground and other rights granted to the lessee shall be deemed
to have been transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government.
(2) On the expiry of the term of any lease, referred to in sub-section (1), such lease shall, if so desired
by the Central Government, be renewed, 3*** by the lessor, for the maximum period for which such lease
can be renewed under the Mineral Concession Rules.
5. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of rights in a Government company.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 and 4, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied
that a Government company is willing to comply, or has complied, with such terms and conditions as that
Government may think fit to impose, direct, by an order in writing, that the right, title and interest of an
owner in relation to a coal mine referred to in section 3, shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central
Government, vest in the Government company either on the date of publication of the direction or on such
earlier or later date (not being a date earlier than the appointed day), as may be specified in the direction.
(2) Where the right, title and interest of an owner in relation to a coal mine vest in a Government
company under sub-section (1), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be
deemed to have become the lessee in relation to such coal mine as if a mining lease in relation to the coal
mine had been granted to the Government company and the period of such lease shall be the entire period
for which such lease could have been granted under the Mineral Concession Rules; and all the rights and
liabilities of the Central Government in relation to such coal mine shall, on and from the date of such
vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities, respectively, of the Government company.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 4 shall apply to a lease which vests in a Government
company as they apply to a lease vested in the Central Government and references therein to the “Central
Government” shall be construed as references to the Government company.
6. Properties vested in the Central Government to be freed from mortgages, etc.—(1) All
property which vests in the Central Government or in a Government company under this Chapter shall, by
force of such vesting, be freed and discharged from any trust, obligation, mortgage, charge, lien and all
other incumbrances affecting it and any attachment, injunction or decree or order of any court restricting
the use of such property in any manner shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
(2) Every mortgagee of any property which has vested under this Act in the Central Government or a
Government company, and every person holding any charge, lien or other interest in or in relation to any
such property shall give, within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed, an intimation to the
Commissioner of such mortgage, charge, lien or other interest.
(3) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the mortgagee of any property referred to in
sub-section (1) or any other person holding any charge, lien or other interest in, or in relation to any, such
property shall be entitled to claim, in accordance with his rights and interests, payment of the mortgage
money or other dues, in whole or in part, out of the amount specified in relation to such property in the
1. Subs. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 12, for “as if a mining lease” (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
2. Subs. by s.12, ibid., for “the entire period” (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
3. Certain words omitted by s. 12, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
7Schedule, but no such mortgage, charge, lien or other interest shall be enforceable against any property
which has vested in the Central Government or the Government company.
7. Central Government or Government company not to be liable for prior liabilites.—(1) Every
liability of the owner, agent, manager or managing contractor of a coal mine, in respect of any period
prior to the appointed day, shall be the liability of such owner, agent, manager or managing contractor, as
the case may be, and shall be enforceable against him and not against the Central Government or the
Government company.
(2) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that—
(a) save as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Act, no claim for wages, bonus, royalty, rate,
rent, taxes, provident fund, pension, gratuity or any other dues in relation to a coal mine in respect of
any period prior to the appointed day, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the
Government company;
(b) no award, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority in relation to any coal mine
passed after the appointed day, but in relation to any matter, claim or dispute which arose before that
day, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the Government company;
(c) no liability for the contravention, before the appointed day, of any provision of law for the
time being in force, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the Government
company.
CHAPTER III
PAYMENT OF AMOUNT
8. Payment of amount to owners of coal mines.—1[(1)] The owner of every coal mine or group of
coal mines specified in the second column of the Schedule, shall be given by the Central Government, in
cash and in the manner specified in Chapter VI, for the vesting in it, under section 3, of the right, title and
interest of the owner in relation to such coal mine or group of coal mines, an amount equal to the amount
specified against it in the corresponding entry in the fifth column of the Schedule.
2
[(2) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the amount specified in the fifth column of
the Schedule against any coal mine or group of coal mines specified in the second column of the said
Schedule and required to be given by the Central Government to its owner under sub-section (1) shall be
deemed to include, and deemed always to have included, the amount required to be paid to such owner in
respect of all coal in stock or other assets referred to in clause (h) of section 2 on the date immediately
before the appointed day and no further amount shall be payable to the owner in respect of such coal or
other assets.]
9. Payment of further amount.—(1) In consideration of the retrospective operation of the provisions
of sections 3, 4 and 5, there shall be given by the Central Government, in cash, to the owner of every coal
mine or group of coal mines specified in the Schedule, an amount equal to the amount which would have
been, but for the provisions of the said sections 3, 4 and 5, payable to such owner under the Coal Mines
(Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973), for the period commencing on the 1st day of May,
1973, and ending on the date on which this Act receives the assent of the President.
(2) In addition to the amount referred to in sub-section (1), there shall be given by the Central
Government, in cash, to the owner of every coal mine or group of coal mines specified in the Schedule,
simple interest at the rate of four per cent. per annum on the amount specified against such owner in the
corresponding entry in the fifth column of the Schedule for the period commencing on the date on which
1. Section 8 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 57 of 1986, s. 13 (w.e.f.1-5-1973).
2. Ins. by s. 13, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
8this Act receives the assent of the President and ending on the date on which payment of such amount is
made by the Central Government to the Commissioner.
(3) The amounts referred to in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall be in addition to the amount
specified in the Schedule.
10. Income derived by the owners of coal mines after the appointed day to be refunded to the
Central Government.—(1) Where, in pursuance of any decree, order or injunction of a court or
otherwise, the Central Government or the Custodian appointed under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of
Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973), was prevented from taking over the management of any coal mine,
the owner of such coal mine shall render, within sixty days from the date on which management of the
coal mine is delivered to the Central Government or Government company, as the case may be, accounts
in relation to the period commencing on the date of commencement of the said Act and ending on the date
of delivery of such management to the Central Government or the Government company, as the case may
be, with regard to the—
(a) assets and stores of the coal mine acquired or sold by him during the said period;
(b) coal sold or despatched during the said period;
(c) income derived by him from the coal mine during the said period.
(2) If, on examination of the accounts referred to in sub-section (1), any income is found to have been
derived by the owner from the coal mine during the period referred to in that sub-section, such income
shall be recoverable by the Central Government from the amount payable under section 8 to the owner of
such coal mine, and, the debt due to the Central Government on this account shall rank as an unsecured
debt.
(3) If no account is rendered by the owner of a coal mine within the period referred to in
sub-section (1) or if the Central Government or the Government company has any reason to believe that
the account rendered by such owner is incorrect or false in material particulars, the Central Government
or the Government company may refer the matter to the Commissioner and thereupon the Commissioner
shall determine the income derived by the owner from the coal mine during the period referred to in
sub-section (1), and take steps to recover the said income from the amount payable to the owner of the
coal mine under section 8, as if the debt due to the Central Government on this account were an unsecured
debt.
(4) No mortgage, charge, lien or other incumbrance in relation to a coal mine or any asset thereof
shall be binding on the Central Government or the Government company if such mortgage, charge, lien or
other incumbrance was created, at any time during the period in which the Central Government or the
Custodian was prevented, by any decree, order or injunction of a court or otherwise, from taking over the
management of the said coal mine.
CHAPTER IV
MANAGEMENT, ETC., OF COAL MINES
11. Management, etc., of coal mines.—(1) The general superintendence, direction, control and
management of the affairs and business of a coal mine, the right, title and interest of an owner in relation
to which have vested in the Central Government under section 3, shall,—
(a) in the case of a coal mine in relation to which a direction has been made by the Central
Government under sub-section (1) of section 5, vest in the Government company specified in such
direction, or
(b) in the case of a coal mine in relation to which no such direction has been made by the Central
Government, vest in one or more Custodians appointed by the Central Government under
sub-section (2),
9and thereupon the Government company so specified or the Custodian so appointed, as the case may be,
shall be entitled to exercise all such powers and do all such things as the owner of the coal mine is
authorised to exercise and do.
(2) The Central Government may appoint an individual or a Government company as the Custodian
of a coal mine in relation to which no direction has been made by it under sub-section (1) of section 5.
12. Duty of persons in charge of management of coal mines to deliver all assets, etc.—(1) On the
vesting of the management of a coal mine in a Government company or on the appointment of a
Custodian, all persons in charge of the management of such coal mine immediately before such vesting or
appointment, shall be bound to deliver to the Government company or the Custodian, as the case may be,
all assets, books of account, registers or other documents in their custody relating to the coal mine.
(2) The Central Government may issue such directions as it may deem desirable in the circumstances
of the case to the Government company or Custodian as to its or his powers and duties and the
Government company or Custodian may also, if it or he so desires, apply to the Central Government at
any time for instructions as to the manner in which the management of the coal mine shall be conducted
by it or him or in relation to any other matter arising in the course of such management.
(3) The Custodian shall receive from the funds of the coal mine, in relation to which he or it is the
Custodian, such remuneration as the Central Government may fix and shall hold office during the
pleasure of the Central Government.
13. Accounts and audit.—The Custodian of every coal mine shall maintain the accounts of such
mine in such manner and under such conditions as may be prescribed.
CHAPTER V
PROVISIONS RELATING TO EMPLOYEES OF COAL MINES
1
[14. Liability of officer or other employee of a coal mine for transfer to any other coal mine.—
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law
for the time being in force, the services of any officer or other employee employed in a coal mine shall be
liable to be transferred to any other coal mine and such transfer shall not entitle such officer or other
employee to any compensation under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and no such
claim shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or other authority.]
15. Provident and other funds.—(1) Where a coal mine has established a provident fund,
superannuation, welfare or other fund for the benefit of its employees, the monies relatable to the
employees, whose services have become transferred by or under this Act to the Central Government or a
Government company shall, out of the monies standing, on the appointed day, to the credit of such
provident fund, superannuation, welfare or other fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, the Central
Government or the Government company, as the case may be.
(2) The monies which stand transferred, under sub-section (1), to the Central Government or a
Government company shall be dealt with by that Government or company, as the case may be, in such
manner as may be prescribed.
16. Superannuation fund, etc., to be distributed to employees whose employment becomes
terminated under this Act.—Where the employment of an employee stands terminated by reason of
sub-section (3) of section 14 and such employee is not employed by the owner of the coal mine in any of
his other establishments, such owner shall pay to such employee the amount standing at his credit in the
provident fund and also pay him the amounts due to him as superannuation, welfare and other benefits
admissible to him as if the employee had superannuated or his service with the coal mine had terminated
on the day immediately preceding the specified date.
1. Subs. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 14, for section 14 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
10CHAPTER VI
COMMISSIONER OF PAYMENTS
17. Commissioner of Payments to be appointed.—(1) For the purpose of disbursing the amounts
payable to the owner of each coal mine or group of coal mines, the Central Government shall appoint
such person as it may think fit to be the Commissioner of Payments.
(2) The Central Government may appoint such other persons as it may think fit to assist the
Commissioner and thereupon the Commissioner may authorise one or more of such persons to also
exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by him under this Act, and different persons may be
authorised to exercise different powers.
(3) Any person authorised by the Commissioner to exercise any powers may exercise those powers in
the same manner and with the same effect as if they have been conferred on that person directly by this
Act and not by way of authorisation.
(4) The salaries and allowances of the Commissioner and other persons appointed under this section
shall be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund of India.
18. Payment by the Central Government to the Commissioner.—(1) The Central Government
shall, within thirty days from the specified date, pay, in cash, to the Commissioner for payment to the
owner of a coal mine, an amount equal to the amount specified against the coal mine in the Schedule and
shall also pay to the Commissioner such sums as may be due to the owner of a coal mine under section 9.
(2) In addition to the sum referred to in sub-section (1), the Central Government shall pay, in cash, to
the Commissioner, such amount as may become due to the owner of a coal mine in relation to
1
[the period] during which the management of the coal mine remains vested in the Central Government
2
[, and simple interest at the rate of four per cent. per annum on such amount for the period commencing
on the 1st day of July, 1975 and ending on the date of payment of such amount to the Commissioner].
(3) A deposit account shall be opened by the Central Government, in favour of the Commissioner, in
the Public Account of India, and every amount paid under this Act to the Commissioner shall be
deposited by him to the credit of the said deposit account in the Public Account of India, and thereafter
the said deposit account shall be operated by the Commissioner.
(4) Separate records shall be maintained by the Commissioner in respect of each coal mine in relation
to which payments have been made to him under this Act.
(5) Interest accruing on the amounts standing to the credit of the deposit account referred to in
sub-section (3) shall ensure to the benefit of the owners of coal mines 2[and shall also be payable to the
Commissioner in addition to the sum referred to in sub-section (1)].
(6) References in this section to the owner of a coal mine shall, in relation to a group of coal mines
specified in the Schedule, be construed as references to the owner of that group of coal mines.
19. Statement of accounts in respect of the period of management by the Central Government,
etc.—(1) The Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be, shall cause the books
in relation to each coal mine, the management of which has vested in it under the Coal Mines (Taking
Over of Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973), to be closed and balanced as on the date immediately
before the appointed day, and shall cause a statement of accounts, as on that day, to be prepared, within
such time, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed, in relation to each such mine in respect
of the transactions effected by it during the period for which the management of such coal mine remained
vested in it:
1. Subs. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 11, for “any period, after the appointed day,” (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
2. Ins. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
11Provided that where two or more coal mines were owned, before the commencement of this Act, by
the same owner, a consolidated statement of accounts may be prepared for all the coal mines owned by
such owner.
(2) All amounts received by the Central Government or the Government company after the closure of
such accounts shall, where such accounts relate to transactions effected before the appointed day, be
included in the said statement of accounts in respect of the coal mine to which the said receipt relates.
(3) The Central Government or the Government company in which the right, title and interest of coal
mine stand vested shall be entitled to receive, up to the specified date, to the exclusion of all other
persons, any money, due to the coal mine, realised after the appointed day notwithstanding that the
realisations pertain to a period prior to the appointed day:
Provided that where such realisations have not been included in the statement of accounts as on the
day immediately before the appointed day, a supplementary statement of accounts shall be prepared and
furnished, at such intervals as may be prescribed, by the Central Government or the Government
company to the owner of the coal mine.
1
[(4) The liabilities of the coal mine (not being liabilities arising out of advances made by the Central
Government or the Government company), which could not be discharged by the appointed day, may be
discharged by the Central Government or the Government company up to the specified date out of the
realisations effected before or after the appointed day or out of advances or borrowings made up to the
specified date and every payment so made shall be included in the statement of accounts as on the date
immediately before the appointed day indicating therein the period in relation to which the payments were
made and the payments so made shall not be called in question in any court:
Provided that the liabilities in relation to the period prior to the appointed day, which have not been
discharged on or before the specified date, shall be the liabilities of the owner of the coal mine.]
(5) A copy of each statement of accounts prepared under this section shall be delivered by the Central
Government or the Government company, as the case may be, to the Commissioner and also to the
owner:
Provided that where the number of owners is more than one, only one copy of the statement of
accounts shall be given to the owners for the benefit of all of them.
(6) The statement of accounts prepared under this section shall be audited by a person who is
qualified to be appointed as an auditor of a company under section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956), and the auditor so appointed shall receive from the funds of the coal mine, such remuneration as
the Central Government may fix.
(7) The audit of the statement of accounts shall be conducted in such manner as the Central
Government may direct.
2
[(8) The statement of accounts audited under sub-section (6) shall, unless the contrary is proved, be
conclusive proof in respect of every matter entered therein.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “statement of accounts” means a statement in the
form of receipts and payments, and does not include any statement that may be prepared as a result of the
closing and balancing of the books for the preparation of the profit and loss account and balance-sheet or
any statement prepared in accordance with the normal commercial practice.]
1. Subs. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 16, for sub-section (4) (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
2. Ins. by s. 16, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
121
[19A. Validation of certain collections.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 2, as
amended by section 10 of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978 (22 of 1978),
any money collected by the Central Government or the Government company during the period
commencing on the appointed day and ending with the date specified under sub-section (3) of section 19
shall be deemed to have been validly collected by the Central Government or the Government company,
as the case may be, and any such money shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of section 19.
(2) Any money collected as aforesaid shall not be called in question in any court of law.]
20. Claims to be made to the Commissioner.—2[(1)] Every person having a claim against the owner
of a coal mine shall prefer such claim before the Commissioner within thirty days from the specified date:
Provided that if the Commissioner is satisfied that the claimant was prevented by sufficient cause
from preferring the claim within the said period of thirty days, he may entertain the claim within a further
period of thirty days but not thereafter.
3
[(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), claims in relation to a provident fund,
pension fund, gratuity fund or any other fund established for the welfare of the persons employed by the
owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines may be filed on behalf of the persons so employed by the
Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner appointed by the Central Government under section 3C of the
Coal Mines Provident Fund, Family Pension and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948); 4[and claims in
relation to any other matter may be filed on behalf of all or any of the persons so employed or any group
of such persons, by any Trade Union, registered under the Trade Unions Act, 1926 (16 of 1926), or,
where no such claim has been filed by any Trade Union, by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central)
appointed by the Central Government or any officer subordinate to him;] and the claims so made shall be
deemed to have been made by the persons having a claim against the owner of a coal mine or group of
coal mines:
Provided that no such claim shall be made by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner 4[or the
Trade Union or the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) or any officer subordinate to him,] in relation
to a person who has already made a claim under sub-section (1).]
5
[(3) Where any claim, not being a claim which was time-barred on the 31st day of January, 1973,
was preferred under sub-section (1) within the period specified therefor and was rejected merely on the
ground that such claim was time-barred, such claim shall be deemed not to have been rejected and the
Commissioner shall restore on his file such claim and shall deal with it in the manner specified in
section 23.]
21. Priority of claims in relation to arrears of provident fund, etc.—(1) Every person employed
by the owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines may make a claim to the Commissioner to the effect
that the sums deducted under sub-section (4) of section 7 of the Coal Mines (Taking Over of
Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973), are not sufficient to meet fully the amount of arrears due to him, on
the appointed day within the meaning of that Act, from the owner of such coal mine or group of coal
mines,—
(a) in relation to a provident fund, pension fund, gratuity fund or any other fund established for
the welfare of the persons employed by the owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines, or
(b) as wages,
and that a sum equal to the deficiency may be recovered from the amount specified in the Schedule
against the owner of such coal mine or group of coal mines.
1. Ins. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 12 (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
2. Section 20 re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 41 of 1973, s. 6 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
3. Ins. by s. 6, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
4. Ins. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 13 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
5. Ins. by s. 13, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1975).
13(2) Where a claim is made under sub-section (1), the Commissioner shall determine the extent of the
deficiency and shall, after such determination, deduct in the first instance, out of the amount paid to him
under section 8, a sum equal to the extent of the deficiency determined by him under this sub-section.
(3) All sums deducted by the Commissioner under sub-section (2) shall, in accordance with such rules
as may be made under this Act, be credited by the Commissioner to the relevant fund or be paid to the
persons to whom such sums are due, and on such credit or payment, the liability of the owner in respect of
all the amounts of arrears due as aforesaid shall stand discharged.
(4) The deductions made by the Commissioner under sub-section (2) shall have priority over all other
debts, whether secured or unsecured.
22. Priority in relation to other claims.—(1) Save as otherwise provided in section 21, every
secured debt due from the owner of a coal mine or group of coal mines shall have priority over all other
debts and shall be paid in accordance with the rights and interests of the secured creditors.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, there shall be
paid in priority to all other unsecured debts, not being the amounts advanced by the Central Government
or the Custodian appointed under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973),
for the management of the coal mine,—
(a) all sums due to the State Government including royalty and dead rent;
(b) all amounts due in respect of any compensation or liability for compensation under the
Workmen‟s Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923), in respect of the death or disablement of any
employee of the coal mine unless such mine has, under such contract with insurers as mentioned in
1
[section 14] of the said Act, rights capable of being transferred to and vested in, the workmen; and
(c) all sums deducted by the employer from the salary or wages of any workman or other
employee for credit to any provident fund, or any other fund established for the welfare of the
employees of the coal mine but not deposited to the credit of the said fund.
(3) The debts specified in sub-section (2) shall rank equally among themselves and be paid in full,
unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions and be
paid accordingly.
23. Admission or rejection of claims.—(1) The Commissioner shall fix a certain date on or before
which every claimant shall file the proof of his claim or be excluded from the benefit of the disbursement
made by the Commissioner.
(2) Not less than fourteen days‟ notice of the date so fixed shall be given by advertisement in one
issue of the daily newspaper in the English language and one issue of the daily newspaper in the regional
language as the Commissioner may consider suitable, and every such notice shall call upon the claimant
to file the proof of his claim with the Commissioner within the time specified in the advertisement.
(3) Every claimant who fails to file the proof of his claim within the time specified by the
Commissioner shall be excluded from the disbursements made by the Commissioner.
(4) The Commissioner shall, after such investigation as may, in his opinion, be necessary and after
giving the owner of the coal mine an opportunity of refuting the claim and after giving the claimant a
reasonable opportunity of being heard, in writing, admit or reject the claim in whole or in part.
1. Subs. by Act 38 of 1978, s. 3 and the Second Schedule, for “section 15” (w.e.f. 26-11-1978).
14(5) The Commissioner shall have the power to regulate his own procedure in all matters arising out of
the discharge of his functions including the place or places at which he will hold his sittings and shall, for
the purpose of making any investigation under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil
court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the following
matters, namely:—
(a) the summoning and enforcing the attendance of any witness and examining him on oath;
(b) the discovery and production of any document or other material object producible as
evidence;
(c) the reception of evidence on affidavits;
(d) the issuing of any commission for the examination of witness.
(6) Any investigation before the Commissioner shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the
meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Commissioner shall be
deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXXV of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898).
1
[(6A) The Commissioner may, on receipt of a claim,—
(a) elect to settle the claim himself; or
(b) transfer the claim for settlement to a person authorised in this behalf under sub-section (2) of
section 17; or
(c) withdraw the claim from the person referred to in clause (b) and either settle the claim himself
or transfer it for disposal to any other person who has been authorised in this behalf under
sub-section (2) of section 17.]
(7) 2[A claimant or owner who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner may prefer an
appeal, within a period of sixty days from the date of the decision,] to the principal civil court of original
jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the coal mine is situated:
Provided that where a person who is a Judge of a High Court is appointed to be the Commissioner,
such appeal shall lie to the High Court for the State in which the coal mine is situated, and such appeal
shall be heard and disposed of by not less than two Judges of that High Court:
1
[Provided further that any appeal which has not been preferred before the date on which the Coal
Mines Nationalisation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1978 (22 of 1978), receives the assent of the President,
shall be preferred within a period of sixty days from such date.]
3
[23A. Application of sections 5 and 12 of the Limitation Act.—The provisions of sections 5 and
12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall, so far as may be, apply to appeals under section 23.]
24. Disbursement of money by the Commissioner to claimants.—Where, after meeting the claims
admitted by him, of secured creditors, and unsecured creditors having priority under sub-section (2) of
section 22, the total amount of claims of other unsecured creditors admitted by the Commissioner, does
not exceed the total amount of the money credited to the account of a coal mine, every such admitted
claim shall be paid in full and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the owner, but where such amount is
insufficient to meet in full the total amount of the admitted claims, all such claims shall abate in equal
proportions and be paid accordingly.
1. Ins. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 14 (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
2. Subs. by s. 14, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
3. Ins. by s. 15, ibid. (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
151
[24A. Interest on admitted claims.—Notwithstanding any award, decree or order of any court,
tribunal or other authority, passed before the appointed day, in relation to any coal mine, where any
amount is payable in respect of a claim admitted under this Act, the interest payable on such amount for
any period after the appointed day shall be at such rate not exceeding the rate of interest accruing on any
amount deposited by the Commissioner under section 18.]
2
[25. Recovery of excess payments made by Central Government or Custodian.—Any amount in
excess of payments over receipts in the statement of accounts prepared under section 19 shall be deemed
to be an amount advanced by the Central Government or the Custodian, as the case may be, for the
management of a coal mine during the period in which the management of such coal mine remained
vested in the Central Government and the Central Government may make a claim to the Commissioner
for such excess payment and such claim shall have priority over the claims of all other unsecured
creditors of the coal mine, including those referred to in sub-section (2) of section 22.
Explanation.—In this section. “Custodian” means the Custodian appointed under the Coal Mines
(Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973 (15 of 1973).]
3
[25A. Notice to owners of coal mines and managing contractors, etc.—(1) After meeting the
liabilities of persons whose claims have been admitted under this Act, the Commissioner shall notify, in
such manner as he may think fit, the amount of money available with him and specify in such notification
a date within which the owners of the coal mines, the managing contractors and the owners of any
machinery, equipment or other property which has vested in the Central Government or a Government
company under this Act and which does not belong to the owners of the coal mines may apply to him for
payment.
(2) Where any application is made under sub-section (1), the Commissioner shall, after satisfying
himself as to the right of the applicant to receive the whole or any part of the amount, pay the amount to
the person concerned and in the event of therebeing a doubt or dispute as to the right of the person to
receive the whole or any part of the amount, the Commissioner shall deal with the application in the
manner specified in sub-section (2) of section 26.]
26. Disbursement of amounts to the owners of coal mines.—(1) If out of the monies paid to him in
relation to a coal mine or group of coal mines specified in the second column of the Schedule, there is a
balance left after meeting the liabilities of all the secured and unsecured creditors, the Commissioner shall
disburse such balance to the owner of such coal mine or group of coal mines.
(2) Before making any payment to the owner of any coal mine or group of coal mines under
sub-section (1), the Commissioner shall satisfy himself as to the right of such person to receive the whole
or any part of such amount, and in the event of there being a doubt or dispute as to the right of the person
to receive the whole or any part of the amount, referred to in sections 8 and 9, the Commissioner shall
refer the matter to the court and make the disbursement in accordance with the decision of the court.
(3) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the entries in the fourth column of the
Schedule shall not be deemed to be conclusive as to the right, title and interest of any person in relation to
any coal mine specified in the corresponding entries in the second column of the Schedule and evidence
shall be admissible to establish the right, title and interest of any person in relation to such coal mine.
(4) In relation to a coal mine the operations of which were, immediately before the taking over of the
management of such coal mine under the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973
(15 of 1973), under the control of a managing contractor, the amount specified in the fifth column of the
Schedule against such coal mine shall be apportioned between the owner of the coal mine and such
managing contractor in such proportions as may be agreed upon by or between the owner and such
1. Ins. byAct 22 of 1978, s. 16 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
2. Subs. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 17, for section 25 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
3. Ins. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 17 (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
16managing contractor, and in the event of therebeing no such agreement, in such proportions as may be
determined by the court on a reference made to it by the Commissioner.
(5) Where any machinery, equipment or other property in a coal mine has vested in the Central
Government or a Government company under this Act, but such machinery, equipment or other property
does not belong to the owner of such coal mine, the amount specified in the fifth column of the Schedule
against such coal mine shall, on a reference made to it by the Commissioner, be apportioned by the court
between the owner of such coal mine and the owner of such machinery, equipment or other property
having due regard to the value of such machinery, equipment or other property on the appointed day.
1
[(6) Where the amount specified in the fifth column of the Schedule is relatable to a group of coal
mines, the Commissioner shall have power to apportion such amount among the owners of such group,
and in making such apportionment, the Commissioner shall have regard to the highest annual production
in the coal mine during the three years immediately preceding the appointed day.]
Explanation.—In this section, “court”, in relation to a coal mine, means the principal civil court of
original jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the coal mine is situated.
27. Undisbursed or unclaimed amounts to be deposited to the general revenue account.—Any
money paid to the Commissioner which remains undisbursed or unclaimed for a period of 2[three years
from the day on which the last order for disbursement was made], shall be transferred by the
Commissioner to the general revenue account of the Central Government; but a claim to any money so
transferred may be preferred to the Central Government by the person entitled to such payment and shall
be dealt with as if such transfer had not been made, the order, if any, for payment of the claim being
treated as an order for the refund of revenue.
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS
28. Effect of this Act on other laws.—The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding
anything in consistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any
instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act, or in any decree or order of any court,
tribunal or other authority.
29. Contracts to cease to have effect unless ratified by Government.—(1) Every contract entered
into by the owner or occupier of any coal mine for any service, sale or supply and in force immediately
before the appointed day shall, on and from the expiry of one hundred and twenty days from the
appointed day, cease to have effect unless such contract is, before the expiry of that period, ratified, in
writing, by the Central Government and in ratifying such contract the Central Government may make
such alterations or modifications therein as it may think fit:
Provided that the Central Government shall not omit to ratify a contract unless it is satisfied that such
contract is unduly onerous or has been entered into in bad faith or is detrimental to the interests of the coal
mine.
(2) The Central Government shall not omit to ratify a contract or make any alteration or modification
therein except after giving to the parties to the contract a reasonable opportunity of being heard and
except after recording in writing its reasons for refusal to ratify the contract.
30. Penalties.—3[(1)] Any person who,—
(a) having in his possession, custody or control any property forming part of the undertaking of
any coal mine referred to in the Schedule wrongfully withholds such property from the Central
Government or the Government company, or
1. Ins. by Act 57 of 1986, s. 18 (w.e.f. 1-5-1973).
2. Subs. by Act 22 of 1978, s.18, for “three years from the last day on which the disbursement was made” (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
3. Section 30 re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 67 of 1976, s. 4 (w.e.f. 27-5-1976).
17(b) wrongfully obtains possession of, or retains, any property forming part of the undertaking of
any coal mine specified in the Schedule or wilfully withholds or fails to furnish to the Central
Government or any person specified by that Government, any document relating to such coal mine
which may be in his possession, custody or control or fails to deliver to the Custodian any assets,
books of account, registers or other documents in his custody relating to the coal mine in respect of
which a Custodian has been appointed, or
(c) wrongfully removes or destroys any property of any coal mine or prefers any claim under this
Act which he knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be false or grossly inaccurate,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.
1
[(2) Any person who engages, or causes any other person to be engaged, in winning or mining coal
from the whole or part of any land in respect of which no valid prospecting licence or mining lease or
sub-lease is in force, shall be punishable 2[with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years
and also with fine which may extend to twenty thousand rupees.]]
31. Offences by companies.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company, every person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible
to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the company, shall be deemed
to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been
committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other
officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of
that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
32. Mining companies not to be wound up by the court.—No proceeding for the winding up of a
mining company, the right, title and interest in relation to the coal mine owned by which have vested in
the Central Government or a Government company under this Act or for the appointment of a receiver in
respect of the business of the company, shall lie in any court except with the consent of the Central
Government.
33. Delegation of powers.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification, direct that all or any
of the powers exercisable by it under this Act may also be exercised by any person or persons as may be
specified in the notification.
(2) Whenever any delegation of power is made under sub-section (1), the person to whom such power
has been delegated shall act under the direction, control and supervision of the Central Government.
1. Ins. by Act 67 of 1976, s. 4 (w.e.f. 27-5-1976).
2. Subs. by Act 22 of 1978, s. 19, for certain words (w.e.f. 27-5-1978).
1834. Power to make rules.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry
out the provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(a) the manner in which the coal mine shall be managed by a Government company or a
Custodian;
1
[(aa) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location, the minimum size of the coal mine
or coal bearing areas, and such other conditions which may be necessary for the purpose of coal
mining operations including mining for sale by a company under sub-section (2) of section 3A.]
(b) the manner in which monies in any provident or other fund referred to in section 15 shall be
dealt with;
(c) the form and manner in which the statement of accounts referred to in section 19 shall be
prepared;
(d) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
(3) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it
is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may
be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under
that rule.
35. Power to remove difficulties.—If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this
Act, the Central Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the
difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the appointed
day.
1. Ins. by Act 11 of 2015, s. 28 and Schedule IV (w.e.f. 21-10-2014).
19THE SCHEDULE
(See sections 3, 8 and 18)
Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
Amount (in
rupees)
No.
1
2
3
4
5
ASSAM
Jeypore Coalfield
1.Bimalpore ...Post Office Sibsagar Bimalpore Collieries Limited, Post Office,
Sibsagar.4,000
2.Dilli ...Post Office Banhat,
Sibasagar.Dilli Collieries Association Limited, Post
Office Tinsukia.4,000
3.Jeypore ...Post Office NamrupJeypore Collieries (Private) Limited, Post
Office Namrup.75,000
Makum Coalfield, Lakhimpur
4. Baragolai ...Post Office Baragolai Assam Railways and Trading Company
Limited Margherita.
5. Ledo ...Post Office Ledo
6. Namdang ...Post Office Baragolai Assam Railways and Trading Company
Limited Margherita.
7. Tipong ...Post Office Ledo
Assam Railways and Trading Company
Limited, Margherita.
Assam Railways and Trading Company
Limited, Margherita.
*
48,84,000
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 4.
4,000
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 4.
Mikir Coalfield
8. Koilajan ...Post Office Koilajan Koilajan Collieries Limited, Post Office
Dimapur, Naga Hills.38,000
9. Seelvata ...Post Office Diphu,
District Mikir Hills.4,000
Hira Padda Dipali Dutta, Shillong.
BIHAR
Daltongani Hutar Coalfield, Palamau
10. Hutar ...
*
Post Office Hutar
Colliery.
Sone Valley Portland Cement Company
Limited, Post Office Japla, Palamau.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mine specified against SI. Nos. 5 and 7.
20
2,98,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
11. Jagaldaga ...Post Office Latehar
Palamau.Shri S.K. Dutta, 23-P/1A, Manicktola
Main Road, Calcutta-54.4,000
12. Rajhara ...Post Office Rajhara Ram Saran Das & Brothers, 18, Netaji
Colliery.
Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.6,67,000
East Bokaro Coalfield Hazaribagh
13. East Bokaro ...Post Office PichriEast Bokaro Collieries Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Pichri.15,000
14. New Selected
Dhori ...Post Office BermoGopal N. Singh, Krishna N. Singh,
Govind N. Singh, Shyam N. Singh,
Girdher N. Singh.4,80,000
Nominated Owner:
Shri Bhuneshwar Goswami, Post Office
Bermo, Hazaribagh.
15. Pure Dhori ...
Post Office TantriPure Dhori Colliery Company, Post
Office Tantri, Hazaribagh.29,200
16. Selected Kargali Post Office Pichri
...Vaydanji J-Dave, Post Office Box 8,
Jharia.1,73,000
Hurrah Coalfield (Santhal Pargana)
17. Hurrah
Block 1A ...Fulberia, Post
Office Mahagama.Ideal Mining Combine, Post Office
Mahagama, District Santhal Pargana.5,000
18. Hurrah
Block 1B ...Post Office
MahagamaDwarka Prasad Marwari, Post Office
Mahagama, District Santhal Pargana.4,000
19. Bergo ...Post Office Denro
(Santhal Pargana).Khudiram Seal, Post Office Dhanro
(Santhal Pargana).4,000
20.Churi Jilwari ... Post Office GoddaFulchand Ram, Post Office Godda
(Santhal Pargana).4,000
21.Lalmatia ...Post Office
MahagamaMessrs. S. P. Coal Enterprises, Post
Office Mahagama, District Santhal
Pargana.18,000
22.Paharpur ...Post Office
MahagamaS. P. Coal Enterprises, Post Office
Mahagama (Santhal Pargana).7,000
23.Paul‟s Chilgo ... Post Office
Amrapara (Santhal
Pargana)Paul Brothers, Post Office Jamtara
(Santhal Pargana).4,000
21Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
No.
1
2
24. Simlong ...
345
Post Office DhamniH.N. Bhagar, Post Office Barhait (Santhal
Pargana).4,000
Jainty Coolfields (Santhal Pargana)
25. Bhawanipur ...Post Office ChitraSidheswari Prasad, N. Deo, Post Office
Chitra.13,000
26. Central
Saharpuri ...Post Office ChitraM.N. Singh and S.S. Singh, Post Office
Chitra (Santhal Pargana).15,000
27. Chatkam ...Post Office Dhamni
(Santhal Pargana).H.N. Bhagat, Post Office Barhait (Santhal
Pargana).4,000
28. Chitra Central ... Post Office ChitraB.N. Mandal and Company, Post Office
Chitra (Santhal Pargana).7,000
29. East Damagorah Post Office Kukraha
...R.N. Singh, Post Office Saroth.15,000
30. Gandharb ...Shri Tibriwal, Post Office Deoghar.4,000
31. Girija ...Post Office ChitraShri M.K. Singh, Post Office Chitra (San-
thal Pargana).4,000
32. Haripur ...Post Office
MahagamaPurushottam Das, Post Office Mahagama
(Santhal Pargana).4,000
33. Harinsingha
(Coal Pit). ...Village & Post Office Biswanath Himathsingha, Village and
Dumka (Santhal
Post Office Dumka (Santhal Pargana).
Pargana)4,000
34. Jayanti Central ...Shri O.P. Santhalia, 16, India Exchange
Place, Calcutta-1.54,000
35. Jayanti Khas ...Shri Saligram Prasad Singh, Post Office
Madhupur.4,000
36. Jilwari No. 7 ...Shri Jagannath Prasad Bhagat, Post Office
Saraunri.4,000
C.C. Mondal, Post Office Dishergarh,
Burdwan.15,000
38. Mondal‟s
Post Office Chitra
Damgora West ... (Santhal Pargana)A.K. Bhaduri, Post Office Chitra (Santhal
Pargana).4,000
39. North Saharjuri ...Shri A.P. Singh and others, Post Office
Kukraha.7,000
Shri N.K. Singh, Post Office Chitra
(Santhal Pargana).6,000
37. Mondal‟s
Damgora East
Sec. ...
40. Patrika ...
Post Office Chitra
(Santhal Pargana)
Post Office Chitra
22Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
No.
1
2
3
4
41. Phulberia ...
Shri M.P. Marwari, Post Office
Mahajama.
M.G. Mishra, Post Office Kukraha.
5
5,000
42. Saharjuri ...Post Office Kukraha
17,000
43. Tarabad
Boothari ...Post Office
T.K. GramShri Durga Jamjuri Coal Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Barakar,
District Burdwan.4,000
44. Tulsi Dabor ...Post Office ChitraNalini Kumar Singh, Post Office Chitra
(Santhal Pargana).19,000
Jharia Coalfield
45. Agarwal Godhur Post Office Kusunda
...Agarwalla Godhur Coal Company, Post
Office Kusunda, Dhanbad.95,000
46. Baramessia
Sikarichuck ...Post Office TundooThakur Rama Avtar Singh, Post Office
Tundoo Dhanbad.49,000
47. Baherabera
Chuck ...Post Office TundooThakur Gupteswar Prasad Singh, Post
Office Tundoo, Dhanbad.45,000
48. Barwabera ...Post Office Nawagarh B. Trigunai and Brothers, Post Office
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.73,000
49. Barora ...Post office Nawagarh Barora Coal Concern, Post Office
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.4,26,000
50. Bastacolla ...Post Office Dhansar23,32,000
Bastacolla Coal Company Limited, Post
Office Dhansar, Dhanbad.
51. Basudeva „A‟
Post Office Khas
(Narayan seam) Jinagora.
...A.B. Jugdutt and Company, Jharia.9,000
52. Bera Colliery ... Post Office JhariaBera Colliery Company, Post Office
Jharia.12,28,000
53. Bright Kusunda Post Office Dhansar
...Bright Kusunda Colliery Company, Post
Office Dhansar, Dhanbad.4,000
54. Bright Tasra ...Post Office SindriSeth Jharumal, Post Office Sindri,
Dhanbad.18,000
55. Basudev „A‟ ...Post Office Khas
JeenagoraR.B. Jugdutt and Company, Jharia.17,000
56. Banerjee‟s
Dobary ...Post Office JhariaS.B. Banerjee and Sons, Post Office
Jharia.4,000
57. Central
Ganeshpur ...Post Office Nawagarh Shyamlal Sunda and Company, Post
Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.41,000
23Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
3
Amount (in
rupees)
45
58. Central Kendwadih Post Office
...
NawagarhNarsingh Harji, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.2,88,000
59. Central Kessurgarh Post Office
...
NawagarhBhairobux Agarwalla, Post Office
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.80,000
60. Central Baihardih ... Post Office
KatrasgarhK.K. Chandra & Brothers, Post Office
Katrasgarh.76,000
61. Central Sinidih ...Srimati Manjula Devi, Post Office
Tundoo.4,000
62. Central Golukdih ... Post Office JhariaSrimati Jyotsna Devi, “Nilachal”, Post
Office Sitarampur, Burdwan.44,000
63. Central Dobary ...Srimati Jayanti Devi, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.42,000
Moolji N. Cholia, Post Office
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.1,01,000
Post Office Tundoo
Post Office Jharia
64. Central Keshalpur Post Office
...
Katrasgarh
65. Central Godhur ...
Post Office Kusunda Central Godhur Colliery Company, Post
Office Kusunda, Dhanbad
42,000
66. Central Jayramdih Post Office
...
NawagarhPaul Brothers, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.49,000
67. Central Tasra ...Post Office SindriCentral Tasra Coal Company Limited
Post, Office Jharia, Dhanbad.52,000
68. Central
Angarpathra ...Post Office SijuaCentral Angarpathra Colliery Company,
Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad.99,000
69. Central Bansjora. ... Post Office SijuaKhas Sijua Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,13,000
70. Chandore ...Post Office
KatrasgarhR.N. Singh and others, Post Office
Katrasgarh.67,00
71. ChandorePost Office SijuaD.P. Agarwalla, Jharia, Dhanbad.16,000
72. Central Sulunga ... Post Office Khas
JeenagoraPurushottampur Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.4,98,000
73. Central Chandore ...Srimati Jyotsna Devi, Post Office Jharia
Dhanbad.4,000
Sheikh Brothers and Company, Post
Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.56,000
74. Damra Khas ...
Post Office
Nawagarh
24Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
75. Damra Pinalgoria ... Post Office
NawagarhLala Mohinder Paul, Post Office
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.35,000
76. Diamond
Phularitand ...Post Office
KharkhareeShyama Coal Company, Post Office
Kharkharee.63,000
77. Dhansar ...Post Office Dhansar Pure Dhansar Coal Company, Post
Office Dhansar, Dhanbad.3,18,000
78. Dhansar, NBH ...Post Office Dhansar Dhansar Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Dhansar, Dhanbad.2,84,000
79. East Benedih ...Post Office
NawagarhEast Bengal Coal Concern (Private)
Limited, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.1,09,000
80. East Dharmaband ... Post Office
NawagarhEast Dharmaband Colliery Company,
Post Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.22,000
81. East Khas Baihardih Post Office Tundoo
...East Khas Baihardih Coal Company,
Post Office Tundoo1,00,000
82. East Mandra ...Post Office
NawagarhBharat Coal Company, Post Office
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.55,000
83. East Bastacolla ...Post Office Dhansar East Bastacolla Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,32,000
84. East Busseriya ...Post Office Kusunda East Busseriya Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Shanti Bhawan,
Dhanbad.10,08,000
85. East Sinidih ...Post Office TundooP. Chanchani and Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Tundoo.60,000
86. East Kujama ...Post Office JhariaEast Kujama Colliery Company, Post
Office, Sijua, Dhanbad.43,000
87. East Keshalpur ...Post Office
KatrasgarhShri Baijnath Chowdhury and others,
Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.40,000
88. East Kendwadih ... Post Office Dhansar East Kendwadih Coal Company Limited,
Kusunda.43,000
89. East Lohabati ...Post Office
RamnagargarhEast Murulidih Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,48,000
90. East Tetulmari ...Post Office SijuaEast Tetulmari Colliery Company
Limited, Sijua.4,000
91. East Murulidih ...Post Office Mohuda P.K. Lalla, Post Office Kharkharee,
District Dhanbad.4,000
25Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
45
East Godhur Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office
Dhanbad.4,000
93. Golden Jeenagora ... Post Office Khas
Jeenagora.
94. Ghutway ...
Post Office
KarmatandSalunga Collieries (Private) Limited,
Post Office Dhanbad. .7,64,000
Ghutway Colliery Company, Dugda,
District Hazaribagh.4,000
95. Golden Sinidih ...Post Office
TundooHit Narayan Singh, Post Office
Tundoo, Dhanbad.9,000
96. Ideal Keshalpur ...Post Office
KatrasgarhIdeal Keshalpur Colliery Company,
Post Office Katrasgarh.39,000
97. Jogidih ...Post Office
TundooP.K. Lalla and Brothers, Post Office
Tundoo, Dhanbad.68,000
98. Joyramdih ...Post Office
NudkhurkeeJoyramdih Coal Company, Post
Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad.99. Kendwadih
(Mondal) ...Post Office
NawagarhB.N. Mondal and Company, Post
Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.55,000
100. Khas Muraidih ...Post Office TundooU.N. Lala, Post Office Tundoo,
Dhanbad4,000
101. Khas Sinidih ...Post Office
Nawagarh.Gyan Chand Sunda and Company,
Jharia.75,000
102. Khodo Valley ...Post Office
NawagarhJiwanlal Sunda, Jora Phatak, Dhanbad.60,000
103. Khas Bansjora ...Post Office BansjoraKhas Bansjora Colliery Company, Post
Office Bansjora, Dhanbad.1,70,000
104. Khas Bahiardih
...Post Office TundooKhas Bahiardih Coal Company, Post
Office Tundoo33,000
105. Katras New ...Post Office
KatrasgarhShrimati Kashibai, Post Office
Katrasgarh96,000
106. Kuya and Khas
Kuya ...Post Office JhariaKuya Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.4,33,000
107. Khas Katrasgarh
...Post Office
KatrasgarhMustafi and Company, Post Office
Katrasbazar, Dhanbad.20,000
108. Khas Godhur ...Post Office KusundaKhas Godhur Coal Company, Post
Office Kusunda.48,000
109. Khas Kusunda ...Post Office KusundaKhas Kusunda Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 40, Strand Road, Calcutta- 1.3,25,000
92. East Godhur ...
*
3
Amount (in
rupees)
Post Office
Kusunda
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 156 and 210.
26
*
2,42,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
110. Karmatand ...
3
Amount (in
rupees)
4
5
Sri Ram Coal Company, Post Office
Karmatand.1,63,000
111. Khas Joyramdih ... Post Office
NawagarhKhas Joyramdih Colliery Company, Post
Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.*
112. Khas Matigora ... Post Office
NudkhurkeeKhas Matigora Colliery Company, Post
Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad.4,000
113. Kalisthan
Angarpathra ...Post Office
KatrasgarhKalisthan Angarpathra Coal Company,
Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.43,000
114. Khas Sijua ...Post Office SijuaKhas Sijua Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.5,42,000
115. Khas Kandra ...Post Office SindriNasib Singh Constituted Attorney (Owner
-Sukla Chandra Prava Debi and Sons,
Post Office Sindri).4,000
116. Khas Pandedih ... Post Office SijuaThe Khas Pandedih Colliery Company,
Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad.4,000
117. Keshalpur ...Post Office
KatrasgarhSeo Shankar Bole, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.4,000
118. Liberty ...Post Office JhariaAgarwal Mining Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,18,000
119. Laxmi Salanpur ... Post Office
KatrasgarhL.B. Singh and Company, Post Office
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.4,000
120. Mandra South
Barora ...Bijoy Narain Singh and Jagdeo Prasad
Singh, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.35,000
121. Model Muraidih... Post Office
...
NawagarhR.K. Pandey, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.6,000
122. Manaitand ...Post Office
DhanbadManaitand Colliery Company, Post Office
Dhansar, Dhanbad.1,11,000
123. Majhlitand ...Post Office Tundoo Sri Pritish Lalla, Post Office Tundoo.
Post Office
Karmatand
Post Office
Katrasgarh
1,12,000
51,000
124. Model Joyramdih Post Office
...
NawagarhPaul Brothers, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.4,000
125. Model
Angarpathra ...B.L. Agarwalla, Post Office Govindpur,
Dhanbad.1,10,000
126. Modern Sudamdih Post Office
...
PathardihModern Sudamdih Colliery Company,
Post Office Pathardih, Dhanbad.4,000
127. New Kendwadih Post Office
...
NawagarhK.P. Lall & Sons, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.49,000
*
Post Office Sijua
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mine specified against SI. No. 148.
27Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
128. New Muraidih ... Post Office
KharkhareeMessrs Kamalendu & Subhendu
Banerjee, 420, Shyampukur Street
Calcutta.4,000
129. North & Khas
Post Office
Muraidih ...
Nawagarh
130. North Baramossia Post Office
...
Tundoo
131. North Tundoo
Post Office
Khas ...
Katrasgarh
132. North Bhuggatdih Post Office
...
DhansarKaluram Heliwal, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.4,000
North Baramossia Coal Company, Post
Office Dhansar, Dhanbad.
R.L. Aggarwala, Post Office Katrasgarh60,000
Srimati Narmada Bala Gupta, Sri Dina
Nath Agarwal and Bansdo Prasad
Agarwala, Post Office Jharia Dhanbad.1,29,000
133. Nichitpur ...Post Office
BansjoraNichitpur Coal Company (Pvt.) Limited,
7 Manoharpukar Road, Calcutta-26.3,03,000
134. North Sinidih ...Post Office
TundooSankarlall Kejarilall, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.1,65,000
135. New Golakdih ... Post Office
GovindpurBiswanath Agarwalla, Post Office
Govindpur, Dhanbad.14,000
136. North Golukdih ... Post Office
BaliapurKishanlall Ranjelall, Post Office
Baliapur, Dhanbad.1,41,000
137. Narayanpur ...Srimati Naraini Devi, Post Office
Katrasgarh.1,38,000
138. North Akashkinari Post Office
...
KatrasgarhKhimji Dossa and Company, Post Office
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.2,17,000
139. North
Dharmaband ...Kunverji Kalyanji, Post Office
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.44,000
140. North Tentuliya ... Post Office
KatrasgarhDebram Ramji, Post Office Katrasgarh3,26,000
141. North Dobari ...Post Office JhariaSahana Coal Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.1,44,000
142. North & West
Ghanuadih ...Post Office JhariaNorth & West Ghanuadih Colliery
Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.6,64,000
143. New Katras ...Post Office
KatrasgarhNew Katras Coal Company, Post Office
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.41,000
144. New Salanpur ...Post Office
KatrasgarhMadhu Lachman & Sons, Post Office
Katrasgarh.6,000
Post Office
Katrasgarh
Post Office
Katrasgarh
145. North Keshalpur ...Post Office
Katrasgarh
North Keshalpur Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh,
Dhanbad.
28
4,000
12,35,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
146. North Godhur ...
3
4
Post Office Kusunda North Godhur Colliery Company, Post
Office Kusunda, Dhanbad.
147. North Loyabad ... Post Office Bansjora North Loyabad Coal Company, Post
Office Bansjora, Dhanbad.
Amount (in
rupees)
5
4,000
3,89,000
148. North Kessurgarh Post Office
...
NadkhurkeeNandalall Shaha & others, Post Office
Nawagarh.Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 111.
149. Nudkhurkee ...M.B. Roy and Brothers, Post Office
Nudkhurkee.3,57,000
150. National Tasra ... Post Office SindriKailashram Khanna, Post Office Sindri,
Dhanbad.13,000
151. New Angarpathra Post Office
...
KatrasgarhNew Angarpathra Colliery Company,
Post Office Katrasgarh.1,08,000
152. New Pandedih ... Post Office SijuaNew Pandedih Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia.10,000
153. North & North
Post Office
East Angarpathra KatrasgarhNorth Angarpathra Coal Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.72,000
154. North Tetulmari... Post Office SijuaNorth Tetulmari Colliery Company, Post
Office Sijua, Dhanbad.8,89,000
155. New BusseryaPost Office
BansjoraNew Busserya Coal Company, Post
Office Sijua, Dhanbad.11,000
156. New JoyramdihPost Office
NudkhurkeeAjit Kumar Chanda, Post Office
Nudkhurkee.Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 98.
Post Office
Nudkhurkee
157. North Gondudih. Post Office
...
KusundaNorth Gondudih Colliery Company, Post
Office Kusunda.4,000
158. New Aukland
Colliery ...Post Office
NudkhurkeeSri Sankar Sen, Post Office Nudkhurkee,
Dhanbad.4,000
159. New Dobary ...Post Office JhariaNew Dobary Coal Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.4,000
New Phularitand Colliery Company, Post
Nawagarh, Dhanbad.4,000
160. New Phularitand. Post Office
...
Nawagarh
161. New Kunji ...
Post Office Mohuda Mrs. B. Kaul, Tower House, Dhanbad.
29
4,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
162. New Tasra ...Post Office Sindri163. Pure Barora ...Post Office Nawagarh N. Sahai, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.1,60,000
164. Pure Benedin ...Post Office Nawagarh Doaba Coal Company (Private) Limited,
Sunda House, Joraphatak Road, Dhanbad.11,000
New Tasra Coal Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.
4,000
165. Pure Dharmaband Post Office Katrasgarh B.N. Jagdeo Prasad Singh, Post Office
...
Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.17,000
166. Pure Ganeshpur ... Post Office Nawagarh Pure Ganeshpur Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,14,000
167. Pure Nichitpur ... Post Office BansjoraPure Nichitpur Colliery Company, Post
Office Bansjora, Dhanbad.58,000
168. Pure Sinidih ...Thakur Ram Avtar Singh, Post Office
Tundoo, Dhanbad.4,000
169. Pure Suderaidih ... Post Office TundooThakur G.P. Singh, Post Office Tundoo,
Dhanbad.30,000
170. Pure Selected
Golakdih ...Pure Selected Golakdih Colliery
Company, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.93,000
171. Pure Bhuggatdih Post Office Jharia
...Pure Bhuggatdih Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.1,05,000
172. Pure Salanpur ...Post Office
KatrasgarhG.V. Modi (Receiver), Post Office Jharia.44,000
173. Pinalgoria ...Post Office
NawagarhEast Kessurgarh Colliery Company, Post
Office Nawagarh.26,000
174. Pure Damoda ...Post Office
NudkhurkeePandit Ram Bhaju Upadhya and
Company, Post Office Nudkhurkee.2,10,000
175. Pure Joyramdih ... Post Office
NudkhurkeePure Joyramdih Colliery Company, Post
Office Nudkhurkee, Dhanbad.1,24,000
176. Pure Selected
Bansjora ...Post Office SijuaH.C. Bhutani, Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad.4,56,000
177. Pure Selected
Tetulmari ...Post Office SijuaPure Selected Tetulmari Colliery
Company Limited, Post Office Sijua,
Dhanbad.45,000
178. Pure Golakdih ... Post Office JhariaPure Golakdih Coal Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.80,000
179. Pathergoria ...Bharat Mining Corporation, 9, Old Court
House Street, Calcutta.4,000
Post Office Tundoo
Post Office Jharia
Post Office Mohuda
30Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
180. Pure Bansjora ...
Location of the mineName and address of owners of the mineAmount (in
rupees)
345
Post Office Sijua
Madanlal Baswatia, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.4,000
181. Pure Chandore ...The West Chandore Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.4,000
182. Ramgarh Jharia ... Post Office
KarmatandRamgarh Jharia Colliery Company, Post
Office Karmatand, Dhanbad.1,64,000
183. Royal Tisra ...Royal Tisra Colliery Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.50,000
Post Office Jharia
184. Real Sudamdih ... Post Office Pathardih Madhab Sinha, Post Office Pathardih.4,000
185. Selected Mandra Post Office Nawagarh Selected Mandra Colliery Company, Post
...
Office Nawagarh.18,000
186. Selected Muraidih Post Office Nawagarh Selected Muraidih Colliery Company, Jiwan
...
Sadan, Dhanbad.22,000
187. South Barora ...Post Office Nawagarh D.P. Lall & Sons, Post Office Nawagarh,
Dhanbad.2,97,000
188. Selected
Govindpur ...Post Office Katrasgarh Selected Govindpur Coal Concern, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.42,000
189. Selected
Keshalpur ...Post Office Katrasgarh Selected Keshalpur Colliery Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.4,000
190. Selected Godhur ...Post Office KusundaSelected Godhur Coal Company, Post
Office Kusunda Dhanbad.91,000
191. Sri Godhur ...Post Office KusundaKatasaria Coal Company (Private) Limited,
Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.35,000
192. South Loyabad ... Post Office BansjoraSouth Loyabad Coal Company, Post Office
Bansjora, Dhanbad.21,000
193. Selected
Sudhamdih ...Selected Sudamdih Colliery Company, Post
Office Sindri Institute, Dhanbad.41,000
Selected Jogta Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jharia, Dhanbad.4,000
195. South Muraidih ... Post Office Katrasgarh South Muraidih Colliery Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.6,00
196. Sudreadih ...Post Office
NudkhurkeeSunda Shamlal, Post Office Nawagarh4,000
197. Selected
Ghanuadih ...Post Office JhariaSelected Ghanuadih Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.4,000
198. Selected
Joyrampur ...Post Office JhariaSelected Joyrampur Colliery Company
Ananda Bhavan, Post Office Jharia.4,000
Post Office Sindri
Institute
194. Selected Jogta ... Post Office Jharia
31Sl. Name of the mine
No.
Location of the mineName and address of owners of the mineAmount (in
rupees)
345
199. South Jamdiha ... Post Office
NudkhurkeeNatwarlal Shamaldas and Company, Post
Office Nudkhurkee.4,000
200. Sree Jagannath ... Post Office TundooNorth Baramessia Colliery Company
Limited, Ashok Bagan, Post Office
Dhanbad.4,000
201. Upper Mandra ... Post Office
NawagarhUpper Mandra Colliery Company, Post
Office Nawagarh, Dhanbad.92,000
202. Upper Jeenagora ... Post Office
JeenagorahG.S. Atwal 243, Sector 9/C, Chandigarh.4,000
203. Upper Jharia ...Post Office JhariaUpper Jharia Colliery Company, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.4,000
204. Victory ...Post Office DhansarUnited Mining Company Limited, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.9,17,000
205. West Phularitand Post Office
...
NawagarhWest Phularitand Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.55,000
206. West Jogidih ...Post Office
KatrasgarhBihar National Coal Company, Post Office
Katrasgarh.39,000
207. West Katras ...Post Office
KatrasgarhN.K. Bose and Brothers, West Katras
Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh.1,22,000
208. West Koiludih ... Post Office
KatrasgarhWest Koiludih Colliery Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh.1,08,000
209. West Ramkanali ... Post Office
KatrasgarhWest Ramkanali Colliery Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad.13,82,000
210. West Joyramdih ... Post Office
NudkhurkeeA.K. Chandra, Post Office Nudkhurkee,
Dhanbad.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 98
1
2
211. West Angarpathra Post Office Katrasgarh West Angarpathra Colliery Company
...
Limited, Post Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.1,30,000
212. West Chandore ... Post Office SijuaWest Chandore Colliery Company, Post
Office Jharia, Dhanbad.85,000
213. West Mudidih ...Post Office SijuaWaliram Taneja Mines (Private) Limited,
Post Office Sijua, Dhanbad.14,39,000
214. West & Sowaria
Salanpur ...Post Office Katrasgarh M.P. and D.D. Agarwalla, Dhanbad Bazar,
Dhanbad.55,000
32Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
215. West Bhurangya. Post Office Mohuda P.K. Lalla, Post Office Kharkharee
...4,000
216. West Gobindpur. Post Office
...
KatrasgarhWest Gobindpur Coal Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.4,000
217. West Keshalpur ... Post Office
KatrasgarhWest Keshalpur Colliery Company, Post
Office Katrasgarh, Dhanbad.4,000
218. West Maheshpur Post Office Tundoo
...Sri Agarwalla Coal Company, Post
Office Tundoo, Dhanbad.4,000
219. West Salanpur ... Post Office
Ganga Bishan Mohandra, Post Office
Katrasgarh
Jharia, Dhanbad.
Bihar - Raniganj (Mugma Coalfield)
220. Badjna ...
Post Office
Oriental Coal Company Limited, 25,
Nirshachati
Brabourne Road, Calcutta.
4,000
28,59,000
221. Basumata ...Post Office
NirshachatiD.N. Chandra and Brothers, Post Office
Nirshachati Dhanbad.4,000
222. Bhogkat ...Post Office MugmaBanga Laxmi Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma, Dhanbad.5,000
223. Chapapur ...Post Office
NirshachatiB.N. Dutta and others, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.25,000
224. Central Shampur Post Office
...
NirshachatiA.K. Chandra and others, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.28,000
225. Central Laikdih ... Post Office MugmaCentral Laikdih Colliery Company, Post
Office Mugma, Dhanbad.4,000
226. Chattabar ...Messrs. New Chattabar Coal Company
Limited, Post Office Chirkunda, District
Dhanbad.18,000
227. Dahibari ...Post Office MugmaDahibari Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma.7,50,100
228. East Badjna ...Post Office
NirshachatiS.N. Chanda and Brothers, Post Office
Nirshachati.1,09,000
229. East Kapasara ... Post Office MugmaBanga Laxmi Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma, Dhanbad.37,000
230. East Kumardhubi Post Office
...
ChirkundaSri Laxmi Narain Trust, Post Office
Jharia, Dhanbad.7,15,000
231. East Rajpura ...Post Office MugmaRajpura Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma.10,400
232. East Shampur ...Post Office
KumardhubiOriental Coal Company, Post Office
Kumardhubi, Dhanbad.16,000
33Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
Amount (in
rupees)
45
233. Edgarcoor
(Durgamata) ...Post Office
ChirkundaDurgamata Coal Company, Post Office
Chirkunda.5,200
234. Edgarcoor ...Post Office
KumardhubiSrimati Sankarben Patel, Post Office
Kumardhubi, Dhanbad.14,400
235. East Palasia ...Post Office MugmaShri K.K. Goswami Post Office Mugma,
Dhanbad.32,300
236. Edgarcoor
(Agarwalla) ...Post Office
NirshachatiB.R. Agarwalla and Company, Post
Office Kumardhubi Dhanbad.31,000
237. Jamdohi
Basantimata ...Post Office MugmaJamdohi Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma, Dhanbad.4,43,800
238. Jamburya
(Selected
Jamburya) ...Post Office
NirshachatiEast Indian Coal Company Limited, 4
Clive Row, Calcutta.1,24,000
239. Kalimata ...Post Office MugmaG.L. Dubey, Post Office Mugma,
Dhanbad.1,24,300
240. Kapasara ...Post Office MugmaBihar Coal Syndicate (Private) Limited,
Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad.65,300
241. Khas Kalimati ... Post Office
KumardhubiKhas Kalimati Coal Company, Post
Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad.1,00,000
242. Khas Nirsha ...Post Office
NirshachatiMohatta Brothers, 19, British Indian
Street Calcutta-1.2,73,000
243. Khoodia ...Post Office
NirshachatiKhoodia Coal Company, Post Office
Nirshachati, Receiver Onkarmal
Agarwalla, Post Office Barakar,
Burdwan.2,18,000
244. Khas Badjna ...Post Office
NirshachatiWestern Bengal Coalfields Limited,
Administrtive Office, Post Office Moria
Colliery, Burdwan.11,12,000
245. Khas
Brindabanpur ...Post Office MugmaBal Krishna Coal Company, Post Office
Barakar.7,000
246. Khas Edgarcoor ... Post Office
KumardhubiB.N. Mondal and L.L. Agarwalla, Post
Office Kumardhubi, Dhanbad.4,000
247. Kooardih ...Banerjee and Company, Post Office
Barakar.1,29,000
248. Lower Badjna ... Post Office
NirshachatiAssociated Laikdih Colliery Limited,
18,Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta.7,52,000
249. Lower Begunia ... Post Office MugmaAssociated Laikdih Colliery Limited, 18,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta.4,000
Post Office Barakar
34Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
Amount (in
rupees)
23250. Merah ...Post Office
ChirkundaRaghunath Agarwalla, Post Office
Chirkunda.1,28,000
251. Nayadanga ...Post Office
NirshachatiK.G. Saiji & Sons, Post Office Searsole
Rajbari, Burdwan.1,02,000
252. Nirsha Khas ...Post Office
NirshachatiNirsha Khas Colliery (Private) Limited,
Post Office Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan.1,37,800
253. North Badjna ...Post Office
NirshachatiNorth Badjna Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Ranaghat, Nadia.*
254. North Laikdih ... Post Office
NirshachatiNorth Laikdih Coal Company, 22, Strand
Road Calcutta.2,17,000
255. Oriental ...Post Office
KumardhubiOriental Coal Company, Post Office
Kumardhubi.41,000
256. Pure Laikdih ...Post Office
NirshachatiPure Laikdi Colliery (Private) Limited,
26A, Fern Road, Calcutta-19.2,18,400
257. Pure Mandman ... Post Office MugmaEast Indian Coal Company Limited, 4,
Clive Row, Calcutta.1,46,000
258. Pure Rajpura ...Post Office
KumardhubiShrimati Sankarben Patel, Post Office
Kumardhubi, Dhanbad.79,000
259. Pure Shampur ... Post Office
NirshachatiD. Mondal & Company, Post Office
Nirshachati.3,04,000
260. Palasia ...Post Office MugmaK.K. Goswami, Post Office Mugma.73,000
261. Pure Hariajan ...Post Office
NirshachatiEast Indian Coal Company Limited, 4,
Clive Row, Calcutta.78,000
262. Pure Singhpur ... Post Office
NirshachatiSatya Pal Kapoor, Kapoor Niwas,
Dhanbad.1,68,000
263. Rajpura ...Post Office
MugmaR.K. Coal Company, Barakar (West
Bengal).37,000
264. Reliance ...Post Office
KumardhubiReliance Coal Company, Post Office
Kumardhubi, Dhanbad1,30,000
265. Ramkrishna ...Post Office
ChirkundaP.N. Mukherjee, Post Office Chirkunda.83,600
266. Raj ...Post Office
KumardhubiD.N. Sen, Post Office Mugma, Dhanbad.10,000
267. Satyanarayan ...Post Office
KumardhubiRurmal Agarwal, Post Office
Stayanarayan Colliery, Kumardhubi55,700
*
4
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mine specified against SI. No. 277.
35
5
8,27,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
4
Amount (in
rupees)
23268. Shampur ...Post Office
NirshachatiKhas Shampur Coal Company, Post
Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad.2,51,000
269. Shampur ...Post Office
NirshachatiThe Kamala Coal Company, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.17,400
270. South Marma ...Post Office
MugmaGuljarilal Agarwalla, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.29,800
271. Shri Durgamata ... Post Office
Mugma.J.N. Garai & others, Post Office
Chirkunda.81,700
272. Shri Gopinathpur ... Post Office
NirshachatiSrimati Mahamaya Devi, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.3,23,400
273. Shri Lakhmimata. Post Office
...
ChirkundaJ.K. Garai & Company, Post Office
Mugma, Dhanbad.1,55,000
274. Sudarshan
Shampur ...Post Office
NirshachatiK.L. Bhambri & Company, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.1,07,800
275. Shri Raghunathji ... Post Office
ChirkundaShri Raghunathji Coal Company, Post
Office Chirkunda.1,13,000
276. Selected Fatka ...Post Office
NirshachatiShri Krishna Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Kumardhubi,
Dhanbad.1,13,000
277. South Badjna ...Post Office
NirshachatiSouth Badjna Coal Company, Post
Office Nirshachati, Dhanbad.278. Shampur ...Post Office
MugmaThe Durga Coal Company, Post Office
Mugma.39,000
279. Selected Bhaljori ... Post Office
DhanbadSelected Bhaljori Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.4,000
280. Selected Laikdih ... Post Office
GovindpurSatya Narayan Agarwala & Partners,
Post Office Nirshachati Dhanbad.8,000
281. South East Badjna Post Office
...
NirshachatiJ.K. Banerjee & others, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.4,000
282. Tewari‟s Beldanga Post Office
Khas ...
ChuruliaM/s. S.C. Tewari & others Post Office
Parsundi, District Birbhum.4,000
283. Upper Mehtadih ... Post Office
NirshachatiEast Indian Coal Company, 4 Clive
Row, Calcutta-1.1,69,000
36
5
Amount
included in the
amount specified
against SL. No.
253.Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
4,000
284. West Barakar ...Post Office
Kumardhubi285. West Barakar ...Post Office Mugma Bihar Fire Bricks and Potteries Limited,
22 Strand Road, Calcutta- 1.15,000
286. West Chanch ...Post Office
Nirshachati8,000
287. West Laikdih ...Post Office Mugma West Laikdih Col Company, 152, B.K.
Pal Avenue, Calcutta-5.64,200
288. West RajpuraPost Office Mugma Kalyaneshwari Coal Company, Post
Office Mugma, Dhanbad.8,000
289. West Shampur ...Post Office
Nirshachati4,000
290. Ara ...
Dinendra nath Das, Post Office
Kumardhubi.
West Chanch Coal Company, Post
Office Barakar.
Beharilal Agarwalla, Post Office
Nirshachati, Dhanbad.
Karanpura Coalfields
Post Office Kuju
North Ramgarh Colliary Company
(Private) Limited, 8, Deodar Street,
Calcutta-19.
6,87,000
291. Banwar ...Post Office ManduRaghunath Bhagat, Hazaribagh
4000
292. Churi ...Post Office RayUnited Karanpura Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, 91, Stephen House, „
Calcutta.4,40,000
293. Central Saunda ... Post Office SaundaUnited Collieries Limited, 5, Royal Ex-
change Place, Calcutta-1.28,00,000
294. Dakra Buk Buka ... Post Office KhalariUnited Karanpura Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, 91, Stephen House,
Calcutta.25,84,000
295. Damodar Valley ... Post Office Hendegir B.K. Bhaduri & Sons, 10, Purulia Road,
Ranchi1,31,000
296. Datma ...Post Office Kuju4,000
297. Gidhania ...Post Office Ramgarh (1) Dhori Coal Company Limited,
(2) M/s. Anderson Wright Limited,
34/4, Gros Venor House, Old Court
House, Calcutta.4,000
298. Hindegir ...Post Office Hindegir Hindegir Mining Corporation Limited,
Hirapur, Dhanbad.5,45,000
299. Hessagora ...Post Office Kuju88,000
300. Jharkhand ...Post Office Ghatutand(under dispute)
M.K. Rana (Receiver), Bansilal Chowk,
Hazaribagh
Hessagora Coal Company, Post Office
Kuju.
37
11,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount
(in rupees)
5
301. Karanpura
Dewarkhand ...Post Office Khalari Karanpura Dowarkhand Colliery
Company Limited, F-3, Gillanders
House, Calcutta10,83,000
302. Karkata ...Post Office Khalari Ajit Prasad Singhdeo & Others, 82,
Stephen House, Calcutta-15,16,000
303. Karanpura ...Post Office Patratu Associated Karanpura Colliery (Private)
Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta- 112,14,000
304. Khas Karanpura ... Post Office Patratu Khas Karanpura Collieries Limited, 71,
Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Calcutta8,30,000
305. Kedla ...Post Office
Ghatutand(under dispute)34,000
306. Kuju ...Post Office KujuKuju Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Kuju1,82,000
307. Lapanga ...Post Office
BhadaminagarHindustan Coal Company,
Bhadaminagar, Hazaribagh2,36,000
308. Laiyo ...Post Office Daneya North Bokaro Coal Company, Post
Office Daneya, Hazaribagh1,89,500
309. Manki ...Post Office RayNational Cement Mines & Industries,
82, Stephen House, East, Calcutta-1.2,58,000
310. Mael ...Post Office
ChitarpurRajballav Singh, Chitarpur, Hazaribagh.73,000
311. Model Dhori ...Post Office
ChainpurModel Dhori Colliery Company, Hazari-
bagh.39,000
312. Mourpa ...Post Office KujuA.K. Roy & R.P. Choudhary, Post
Office Kuju.2,29,500
313. Mangardh ...Post Office Mandu Mani Chatterjee, Hazaribagh.Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 327
314. New Sirkar
Colliery ...Post Office Mandu (Ownership under dispute)4,000
315. Pindra ...Post Office KujuPindra Coal Company, Ram Narayan
Jai‟s Compound, Ranchi.93,000
316. Pakribarwadih ... Post Office
BarkagaonSayed Bokir Mehdi, Ranchi.4,000
317. Ray ...N.C.M.I. Limited, 82, Stephen House,
Calcutta.5,63,000
Post Office Ray
38Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
318. Rauta ...
Post Office
Ramgarh
Cantonment
319. Religara ...
Post Office
Religara
320. South Karanpura Post Office
...
Hindegir
321. Sugia ...
Post Office
Chitarpur
322. Saunda „D‟
Post Office
(Birds) ...
Bhurkunda
323. Sirka ...
324. Sarubera ...
Amount
(in rupees)
5
(Ownership under dispute)
The Karanpura Colliery Limited,
Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1.
Chauhan Brothers, Old Commissioner‟s
Compound, Ranchi.
Sugia Coal Company, Chitarpur.
4,000
*
77,70,000
1,25,000
4,500
Karanpura Collieries Limited, Chartered Amount included
Bank Building, Calcutta-1.
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 319.
Post Office Argada South Karanpura Coal Company
28,83,000
Limited, Chartered Bank Building,
Calcutta- 1
Post Office Kuju
2,42,000
North Ramgarh Coal Company Limited,
8, Deodar Street, Calcutta-19
325. Semra ...Post Office Mandu B.M. Roy, Burrabazar, Hazaribagh9,000
326. Toera ...Post Office KujuM.N. Chatterjee, Post Office Kuju1,12,000
327. Topa ...Post Office KujuTopa Coal Company, Kuju, Receiver;
M.H. Chatterjee and S.K. Banerjee, Post
Office Kuju, Hazaribagh.328. West Tumang ...Post Office M.C.
Chuskieganj,
RanchiChauhan Brothers, Old Commissioner‟s
Compound, Ranchi.
†
1,23,000
2,89,500
Giridih
329. Kabribad ...
Post Office
Beniadih
Serampore Coal Company, Post Office,
Giridih.
23,000
MADHYA PRADESH
Central India Coalfields
330. Chirimiri ...Post Office
ChirimiriChirimiri Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, 18/22, Sheik Memon Street,
Bombay-2.37,51,000
331. New Chirimiri
(Ponri Hill) ...Post Office
ChirimiriDababhoy‟s New Chirimiri Ponri Hill
Company (Private) Limited, Post Box
No. 85, Nagpur.63,60,000
United Collieries Limited, 25,
Brabourne Road, Calcutta.15,01,000
332. North Chirimiri ... Post Office
Gelhapani
*
†
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mine specified against SI. No. 322.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mine specified against SI. No. 313.
39Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in rupees)
No.
1
2
333. North
Jhagrakhand ...
3
4
5
*
61,42,000
Post Office
Jhagrakhand Colliery (Private) Limited,
Jhagrakhand Colliery 13, Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19.
334. Pure Chirimiri ... Post Office Chirimiri K.N. Dhady, Post Office Chirimiri.1,80,000
335. Rajnagar ...Post Office Rajnagar M/s. Dalchand Bahadur Singh, 15,
Colliery
Gariahat Road, Calcutta-19.14,71,000
336. Ramnagar ...Post Office
Ramnagar CollieryVindhya Colliery (Private) Limited, 18,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.12,02,000
337. South
Jhagrakhand ...Post Office
Jhagrakhand
Colliery.Jhagrakhand Collieries (Private)
Limited, 15, Gariahat Road,
Calcutta-19.
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 333.
338. West Chirimiri ... Post Office Chirimiri Indra Singh & Sons (Private) Limited,
33,75,000
7, Wellesly Place, Calcutta-1
339. West
Post Office West
Jhagrakhand Collieries (Private)
Amount included
Jhagrakhand ... Jhagrakhand.
Limited, 13, Gariahat Road,
in the amount
Calcutta-19.
specified against
Sl. No. 333.
Pench-Kanhan Valley Coalfields
340. Ambara ...Post Office
JunnerdeoN.H. Ojha & Company Limited, F-3,
Gillander House, 8, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta.
341. Barkuhi ...Post Office ParaseaPench Valley Coal Company Limited,
„Hong Kong House‟, 31, Dalhousie
Square, Calcutta-1.
342. Barkuhi West ... Post Office ParaseaM/s. J. A. Trivedi Brothers, Post Box
No. 1, Balaghat, District Chhindwara.
343. Bhamori ...Post Office ParaseaAmalgamated Coalfields Limited,
„Hong Kong House‟, 31, Dalhousie
Square, Calcutta-1.
344. Chandamata ...Post Office ParaseaPench Valley Coal Company Limited, Amount includeed
Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara.
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 341.
345. Datla East ...
5,41,000
†
53,08,000
2,16,000
‡
94,04,000
M/s. Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, Amount included
Post Office Parasea, District
in the amount
Chhindwara
specified against
Sl. No. 343.
*
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 337 and 339.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 344, 349 and 357.
‡
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 345, 346, 350 and 360.
†
40Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
Amount (in
rupees)
4
5
346. Datla West ...Post Officer
JunnerdeoAmalgamated Coalfields Limited, „Hong Amount included
Kong House‟, 31, Dalhousie Square,
in the amount
Calcutta-1.
specified against
against Sl. No.
343.
347. Damua ...Post Office
Damua Calliery(Ownership under dispute)
348. Dhao ...Post Office Dhao
Shri Durga Prasad, Dhao Colliery,
Junnerdeo, Chhindwara.
349. East
Post Office Parasea Pench Valley Coal Company Limited,
Dongarchickli ...
„Hong Kong House‟, 31, Dalhousie
Square, Calcutta-1.
350. Eklehra ...
Post Office Parasea Amalgamated Coalfields Limited „Hong
Kong House‟, 31, Dolhousic Square,
Calcutta-1.
351. East Barkuhi ...
Post Office Parasea J.A. Trivedi and Brothers, Balaghat,
Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh.
352. Ghorawari-
Post Office
J.A. Trivedi and Brothers, Balaghat,
Hirdagarh ...
Ghorawari-Khurd Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh.
353. Ghorawari Kalan Post Office
T.K. Sukla, Post Office Ghorasora,
...
Ghorawari
Chhindwara.
6,76,000
21,500
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 341.
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 343.
4,000
3,47,000
4,000
354. Jamkunda ...Post Office
Junnerdeo355. Kalichhapar ...Post Office Damua (Ownership under dispute)
Collieries.356. Newton ChickliPost Office Parasea Newton Chickli Collieries (Private)
Limited, Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara.357. North
Chandameta ...Post Office Parasea Pench Valley Coal Company Limited,
„Hong Kong House‟, 31, Dalhousie
Square, Calcutta-1.Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 341.
358. Nandora ...Post Office Parasea Pench Valley Coal Company Limited,
Parasea.41,000
359. Rakhikol ...Post Office RakhikolS.C. Kambata (Private) Limited, Maharshi
Karve Road, Bombay-20.2,51,000
*
N.H. Ojha & Company Limited, F/3,
Gillander House, 8, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta-1.
*
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. No. 355.
41
4,000
Amount included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 347.
52,01,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
360. Rawanwara ...
3
Amount (in
rupees)
4
Post Office Parasea Amalgamated Coalfields Limited, Post
Office Parasea, Chhindwara.
5
Amount included in
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 343.
361. Rawanwara Khas Post Office Parasea Oriental Coal Company Limited 25, Bra-
...
bourne Road, Calcutta.9,14,000
362. Sial Ghogri ...Post Office
Junnerdeo2,94,000
363. Sukri ...Post Office Parasea The Jamai Majri Coal Company Limited,
Post Office Parasea, Chhindwara.
Sial Ghogri Group, Nelson Square,
Nagpur.
364. South Panara ... Post Office
Junnerdeo
365. Baroud ...
366. Domnara ...
Post Office
Ghorghoda
Post Office
Kharsia-Raigarh.
367. Dumnara ...
6,92,000
4,000
Lala Bikimla Jagannath, Post Office
Junnerdeo, Chhindwara.
Raigarh Coalfield
P.R. Gupta & others, Raigarh, Madhya
Pradesh.
R.N. Poddar, North Ambajhari Road,
Nagpur.
Sri J.K. Poddar, 32, Wardha Road,
Nagpur.
11,000
*
12,000
Amount included in
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 366.
Sohagpur and Johilla Coalfields
†
368. Amlai ...Post Office
DhanpuriRewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall
Street, Calcutta-1.369. Bhadra ...Post Office KotmaRewa Mining Company Limited, Post
Office Kotma.6,27,000
370. Birsingpur ...Post Office
Birsingpur PaliJohilla Coalfields Limited, Post Office
Birsingpur Pali, District Sahdol.22,13,000
371. Burhar No. 1
and 2 ...Post Office
DhanpuriRewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall
Street, Calcutta-1.Amount included in
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 368.
372. Burhar No. 3 ... Post Office Dhanpuri Rewa Coalfields Limited, 4, Bankshall
Street, Calcutta-1.Amount included in
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 368.
373. Kotma ...
*
†
Post Office Kotma
Colliery
Associated Cement Company Limited,
121, Maharshi Karve Road, Bombay-20.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. No. 367.
This amunt includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. No. 371, 372 and 376.
42
97,42,000
44,28,000Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
Amount (in
rupees)
45
374. Nowrazabad ...Post Office
NowrazabadAssociated Cement Company Limited,
121, Maharshi Karve Road, Bombay-20.32,41,000
375. Rungta ...Post Office Rungta
Colliery.Mahabir Prasad Rungta and Partners,
Post Office Rungta Colliery.4,42,000
376. Umaria ...Post Office Umaria Rewa Coalfields Limited, Post Office
Umaria, District Sahdol.
MAHARASHTRA
Kamptee Coalfield
M/s. Oriental Coal Company Limited,
25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1.
377. Inder ...
378. Kamptee ...
Amount included in
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 368.
Post Office
Kamptee
M/s. Oriental Coal Company Limited,
25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1.
8,29,000
21,22,000
Wardha Valley Coalfield
*
379. Ballarpur ...Post Office
Ballarpur
380. Chanda
Rawatwari ...Post Office Chanda R.B. Seth and Sri Ram Durga Prasad
Tumsar, District Bhandara.
381. Ghugus ...Post Office
Maneakpur
382. Hindustan
Lalpeth ...Post Office Chanda Perfect Pottery Company Limited,
Hanumantlal, Jubbalpore.
17,80,000
383. New Majri ...Post Office Shivaji
Nagpur, Chanda.
Sethia Mining & Manufacturing
Corporation, 4, Bakul Bagan Row,
Calcutta-25.
10,10,000
384. Rajur ...Post Office Rajur
Rajkumar Mining Company.
75,000
385. Sasti ...Post Office Ballarpur Ballarpur Collieries Company Limited, Amount included in
Temple Road, Post Box No. 11, Nagpur. the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 379.
*
Ballarpur Collieries Company, Biseswar
House, Lajpat Rai Marg, Post Box No.
11, Nagpur.
38,77,000
8,21,000
Ballarpur Collieries Company, Biseswar Amount included in
House, Post Box No. 11, Nagpur.
the amount
specified against Sl.
No. 379.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 381 and 385.
43Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
386. Shri Mahakali ... Post Office Mahakali Shri Mahakali Coal Mines Limited, 23B,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. (Under
Liquidator)
MEGHALAYA
Khasi and Jaintia Coalfields
387. Barsora ...
Assam Bengal Cement Company
Limited, 7, Wellesly Place, Calcutta-1.4,000
388. Cherapunji ...Post Office
The Cherrachhatak Ropeway Company
Cherapunji, District Limited, 1 & 2, Old Court House
K and J. Hills.
Corner, Calcutta- 1.4,000
389. Laitryngew ...The Cherrachhatak Ropeway Company
Limited, 1 & 2, Old Court House
Corner, Calcutta- 1.4,000
390. Laitryngew ...The Laitryngew Cherra Coal
Association, Post Office Cherapunji,
District U. K. Hills.4,000
4,000
391. Mawsynram ...Post Office
Mawsynram U. K.
HillsMessra, Sidroka Marbaniang, Post
Office Shillong.4,000
392. Thangjinath ...Post Office
PynurslaAssam Trading & Mining Company
(Private) Limited, Shillong.7,000
ORISSA
Ib Valley Coalfield
393. Hingir Rampur ... Post Office Rampur Hingir Rampur Coal Company Limited,
Colliery
Post Box- 109, Home Street, Fort,
Bombay.18,74,000
394. Ib River ...Post Office
BrajrajnagarChandmal Indra Kumar Karnani, 3,
Synagogue Street, Calcutta-1.1,50,000
395. Orient ...Post Office
BrajrajnagarWestern Bengal Coal Company Limited,
Administrative Office, Moira Colliery,
District Burdwan.34,90,000
WEST BENGAL
396. Ajoy Bank ...
Post Office
NutandangaAjoy Coal Company (Private) Limited,
34A, Sardar Sankar Road, Calcutta-29.
47,000
397. Ardhagram Khas Post Office
...
ArdhagramM/s. R.K. Agarwala & Sons (Private)
Limited, Lal Bazar, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.
4,000
398. Adjoy Second ... CharanpurBengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount included in
Row, Calcutta-1.
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 432.
44Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
399. Alkusa ...
3
Post Office Samdi
Amount (in
rupees)
4
5
J.D. Mondal, Post Office Samdi,
Burdwan.16,000
400. Alkusa Gopalpur Post Office Samdi
...Khanna Coat Corporation, Post Office
Samdi.1,31,000
401. Aldih ...Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16.Amount
included in the
amount
specified
against Sl. No.
411.
402. Akhalpur ...Post Office
CharanpurWest Jamuria Coal Company Limited, 2,
Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1.4,000
403. Aurang ...Post Office KastaKasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogue
Street, Calcutta- 1.4,000
404. Barmondia 3 & 4 Post Office
Pits ...
KanayapurNew Beerbhum Coal Company Limited,
8, Clive Row, Calcutta-1.8,90,000
405. Bhamuria ...Post Office
BhamuriaNaturia Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Bhamuria, District
Purulia.1,31,000
406. Burradheme ...Post Office
SitarampurNorth Dheme Coal Company Limited,
135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.1,12,000
407. Babisole ...Post Office OndalBharat Mining Corporation Limited, 91,
Stephen House, 5th Floor, Dalhousie
Square, Calcutta.85,100
408. Belbaid ...Post Office ToposiBelbaid Collieries Limited, Post Office
Raniganj, Burdwan.2,06,000
409. Bankola ...Post Office UkhraBurrakar Coal Company Limited,
Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta- 1.36,78,000
410. Banksimula 7 & 8 Post Office
Pits ...
CharanpurBengal Coal Company Limited, 8 Clive Amount included in
Row, Calcutta- 1.
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 432.
411. Bhanora ...Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2,
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta- 16.
Post Office
Charanpur
*
1,41,30,000
412. Bhanora South ... Post Office
CharanpurEquitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2, Amount included in
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16.
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 411.
413. Bright‟s Rana ...D. Bright & Company (Private) Limited,
Post Office Charanpur, Burdwan.
Post Office
Charanpur
*
2,30,000
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 401, 412, 419, 452, 471, 510, 517,
518, 527, 563 and 629.
45Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
414. Benodi Katta ...3
Post Office Samdi
415. Bhagran ...Post Office
Salanpur
416. Bon-Jemihari ... Post Office
Salanpur
4
Jiwanlal Collieries (Private) Limited,
Post Office Samdi.
The South Bhagran Coal Company, Post
Office Salanpur, Burdwan.
Amount (in
rupees)
5
19,000
1,01,000
Bon-Jemihari, Anthracite Coal
Company, Post Office Salanpur,
Burdwan.2,65,000
417. Benali ...Post Office
RaniganjNimcha Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 21, Jatindra Mohan Avenue,
Calcutta-6.45,000
418. Bhadulia ...Post Office
KhoriasoleDubrajpur Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Bhadulia, Birbhum.15,000
419. Bejdi ...Post Office
SitarampurEquitable Coal Company, 1/2, Lord
Sinha Road, Calcutta-16.Amount included in
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 411.
420. Bhutdoba ...Post Office
AsansolA.P. Dutta & Company, Hutton Road,
Asansol.4,000
421. Borachak ...Post Office
AsansolBorachak Collieries Company, Post
Office Sitarampur.4,000
422. Bhatmura ...P.K. Agarwalla & Other, Post Office
Jharia Dhanbad.4,000
423. Bharatchak ...B.N. Sanyal (Private) Limited, District
Burdwan.4,000
Samla Kajora Coal Company, Post
Office Hazaribagh, Birbhum.4,000
425. Banksimula Old
Pits ...Bengal Coal Company, 8, Clive Row,
Calcutta.Amount included in
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 432.
426. Bansrachak ...New Birbhum Coal Company Limited,
BurdwanAmount included in
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 611.
424. Borejore ...
Post Office
Hazaribagh
427. Bamanbandh ...Post Office
CharanpurGopal Narayan Singh, Nageswar Bag,
Post Office Buniadganj, Gaya4,000
428. Bon-biddi ...Post Office,
SalanpurShri Durgadas Maji, Village-Khurdike,
Post Office Salanpur, District Burdwan.34,000
429. Bastabpur ...Post Office
KhayereselSakti Pada Nayak and others, Post Office
Bhadulia, Burdwan.4,000
430. Banksimula 11 & Post Office
12 Pits. ...
Charaupur
Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount included in
Row, Calcutta.
the amount specified
against Sl. No. 432.
46Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
45
Post Office
SitarampurM/s. Belrui Dishergarh Coiliery
(Private) Limited, Post Office Salanpur,
Burdwan.4,000
432. Chinakuri Nos. 1 Post Office
& 2 Pits. ...
SunderchakBengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta.*
433. Chinakuri No. 3 Post Office
Pit. ...
SunderchakBengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta.Amount
included
in the amount
specified against
Sl. No. 432.
434. Chowkidanga ... Post Office ToposiBirbhum Mining (Private) Limited, 7,
Monoharpukur Road, Calcutta.16,000
435. Central & Lower Post Office Bahula
Jambad. ...East Bahula Collieries Limited, 18,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.5,34,000
436. Chora Pits
Post Office Bahula,
1.Chora-10 Pit Bardwan.
2. Chora-7 and 9
Pits. ...Chora Coal Company, 8, Synagogue
Street, Calcutta- 1.11,77,000
437. Central Satgram Post Office
...
JaykaynagarHarsookdas Balkissendas, 22, Burtolla
Street, Calcutta.9,46,000
438. Chalbalpur ...Post Office
JaykaynagarK.L. Selected Coal Concern, Post Office
Jaykaynagar.93,000
439. Chapui Khas ...Post Office
KalipahariSahu Minerals & Properties Ltd., A-3,
Prithviraj Road, Jaipur.16,28,000
B.D. Gorach, Nuruddin Road, Post
Office Asansol, Burdwan.9,000
431. Belrui
Dishergarh ...
3
Amount (in
rupees)
440. Central Jamuria ...Post Office Nandi
3,75,06,000
441. Chaptoria ...Post Office Salanpur East Chaptoria Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 22, Canning Street, Calcutta- 1.99,000
442. Chinchuria ...Post Office Asansol Ajoy Bank Minerals, Post Office
Churulia, Burdwan.4,000
443. Chak Keshabganj
...Shrimati Indumati Devi C/o. Kartick Ch.
Mukherjee, Village Jasidih, Post Office
Dishergarh, District Burdwan.4,000
444. Chowrassia ...Chowrassia Coal Company, Post Office
Kalipahari, Burdwan.4,000
445. Chinchuria and
Chinchuria East.
...Bahadur Singh Bhutoria & others, Post
Office Asansol, Burdwan.4,000
*
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 398, 410, 425,430, 433, 494, 526,
604, 606, 635,642,643 and 644.
47Sl. Name of the mine Location of the mine Name and address of owners of the mine
No.
1
2
3
4
Amount (in
rupees)
5
446. Central Nandi ... Post Office NandiSri Nathumall Layelka Post Office
Raniganj, Burdwan.4,000
447. Central Sitapur ...Kanailal Mukherjee, Village Rajpur,
Nandi, Post Office Jamuria, Burdwan.4,000
448. Central Kenda ... Post Office ToposiGopal Prasad Pandey, Central Kenda
Collieries, Post Office Toposi.4,000
449. Chora Khas ...Post Office ChoraSelected Chora Coal Company Limited,
6, Ezra Street, Calcutta-1.4,000
450. Central
Dishergarh ...Central DishergarhCentral Dishergarh Coal Company
Limited, 174 Harrison Road, Calcutta.4,000
451. Chakbaga Khas ... District BankuraSankar Prasad Singh Deo, Post Office
Panchaketeraz, Purulia.4,000
452. Chowrashi ...Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2,
Lord Sinha Road Calcutta-16.
Post Office Neturia
Amount
included in the
amount specified
against Sl. No.
411.
453. Churulia East ... Post Office Churulia East Churulia Colliery Company, Post
Office Churulia, Burdwan.4,000
454. Central Kajora ... Post Office
KajoragramDutta‟s Kajora Coal Company Limited,
1, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta.15,000
455. Chinchuria Khas Post Office Asansol Khas Chinchuria Collieries Limited,
...
Post Office Asansol.
456. Charanpur ...
Post Office CharanpurIswar Shib Thakur Sabehat, Post Office
Nirsachatti.
457. Churulia ...
Post Office Churulia New Churulia Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 4, Lyons Range, Calcutta.
458. Central Baraboni Post Office Baraboni Sri A.K. Ghosh and Shri B.N.
...
Tarkatirtha, Post Office Baraboni,
Burdwan.
459. Central Poniati ... Post Office Nandi
Central Poniati Coal Company 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta.4,000
460. Deoli (Mondal‟s) Post Office
...
DishergarhB.N. Mondal and Company, Post Office
Dishergarh, Burdwan.1,56,000
461. Dhemomain ...Post Office
SitarampurDhemomain Collieries and Industries
Ltd., 36, Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-
16.9,27,000
462. Darula ...Post Office
PandaveswarEast Satgram Coal Company Limited,
135, Canning Street, Calcutta.5,41,000
463. Domoda ...Post Office Raniganj Damodar Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Raniganj, Burdwan.
48
4,000
6,000
4,000
4,000
5,64,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mineName and address of owners of the mineAmount (in
rupees)
345
464. Damra ...Post Office Kalipahari Katras Jherriah Coal Company, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta.17,41,000
465. Dabor ...Post Office SamdiH. Roy and T. Roy, Dabor Colliery
(Private) Limited, Post Office Samdi,
Burdwan.85,000
466. Damagoria Amdiha Post Office Samdih
...Damagoria Amdiha Coal Company, Post
Office Salanpur.1,31,000
467. Deshermohan ...Post Office ChuruliaC.L. Poddar & others, Post Office
Churulia.1,09,000
468. Dalmiya ...Post Office SalanpurR.S. Dalmiya, 26, New Alipore Road,
Calcutta-27.1,07,000
469. Damra ...Post Office Kalipahari A.P. Dutta & Company, Hutton Road,
Asansol.4,000
470. Develia and W.
Develia ....Post Office Kalipahari K.D.N. Singh, Chattapathar, Post Office
Kalipahari4,000
471. Dhussal ...
Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2,
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 411.
472. Dhundabad ...Post Office SamdiJ.B. Mondal & Company, Post Office
Samdi, Burdwan.4,000
473. Dhadka ...Post Office AsansolDhadka Colliery Company Limited, Post
Office, Asansol.4,000
474. Diguli ...Post Office ChuruliaOriental Mining & Trading Syndicate,
Post Office Churulia Burdwan.4,000
475. East Jambad ...Post Office
Kajoragram.Amalgamated Jambad Syndicate (Private)
Limited 33, Biplabi Rash Behari Bose
Road, Calcutta-1.1,93,000
476. East Kajora ...Post Office OndalSwadeshi Mining & Manufacturing
Company Limited 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.56,000
477. East Sitalpur ...Post Office UkhraEast Barrakar Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Ukhra.7,75,000
478. East Jamehari ...Post Office RaniganjHarsookdas Balkissendas, 22, Burtolla
Street, Calcutta-7.2,09,000
479. East Nimcha ...Post Office
JaykaynagarEast Laikdih Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office, Jaykaynagar,
Burdwan.69,56,000
49Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mineName and address of owners of the mineAmount (in
rupees)
345
480. East Satgram ...Post Office
JaykaynagarEast Satgram Coal Company (Private)
Limited 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.4,000
481. East Baraboni ...Post Office Charanpur East Baraboni Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 4, Mandevilla Gardens,
Calcutta-19.4,000
482. East Jamuria ...Post Office ToposiEast Jamuria Coat Company, Post Office
Toposi Burdwan.93,000
483. East Ramnagar ...Post Office SalanpurD.R. Sabhlok (Through Constituted
Attorney B.L. Satnalika, Post Office
Salanpur, Burdwan)44,000
484. East Lachipur ...Post Office Sitarampur East Lachipur Collieries Balrui
Dishergarh Colliery Company, Post
Office Sitarampur, Burdwan.4,000
485. East DhundabadPost Office SamdiEast Chundabad Colliery, Post Office
Sitarampur.4,000
486. East Parsundi ...Post Office Barhra
District Birbhum.East Parsundi Collieries Limited, 2,
Commercial Building, 102, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.4,000
487. East Searsole ...Post Office RaniganjShri Jayanta Kr. Banerjee & others,
Burdwan.4,000
488. East Bonbiddi ...Post Office SalanpurShri T.K. Mahato, Managing Agent,
Salanpur, Burdwan.4,000
Ekrah Nandi Coal Company, F-2, Clive
Building, 8, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta-1.4,000
489. Ekrah Nandi(New
Jamuri) ...
490. Goenka Kajora ...Post Office
Kajoragram
Goenka Coal Company, S. B. Goenka,
Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan.
7,75,000
491. Guru Gopinath ...Post Office Ukhra
Gnananda, Industries (Private) Limited,
Post Office Ukhra, Burdwan.
86,000
492. Ghusick ...Post Office Kalipahari Coal & Mineral Syndicate, 36, Strand
Road, Calcutta- 1.
4,75,000
493. Ghusick ...Post Office Kalipahari Ghusick & Muslia Collieries Limited,
Post Office, Kalipahari, Burdwan.
5,44,000
494. Girmint ...Amount
Post Office Charanpur Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta-1.
included in the
amount
specified
against Sl. No.
432.
50Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mineName and address of owners of the mineAmount (in
rupees)
345
495. Gourangdih ...Post Office PanuriaGourangdih Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office, Panuria Burdwan.1,33,000,
496. Gourangdih
Begunia ...Post Office JamgramJamgram Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Jamgram, Burdwan.1,08,000
497. Gangaram Chak ...Post Office BarharaMishra Mukherjee & Company, Post
Office Sagarbhanga, Birbhum,26,000
498. Gopalpur ...Post Office MejiaShri D.B. Parmar, Post Office Ardhagram
Bankura.4,000
499. Hirakhun ...Post Office NeturiaShrimati Durgadevi Singhania, Post
Office Neturia, District Purulia.7,000
500. Haripur ...Post Office BahulaSelected Baraboni Coal Company
(Private) Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.9,32,000
501. Hindustan Alkusa ... Post Office SamdiShri S.N. Agarwala, Post Office
Burrakar, Burdwan.98,000
502. Hamirpur ...Post Office Mejia
BankuraNew Hamirpur Colliery Company, Post
Office Toposi, Burdwan,4,000
503. Itapara ...Post Office Entapara,
District BurdwanShri Keshordeo, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.4,000
504. Jorekuri ...Post Office ChuruliaJorekuri Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Box No. 55, Dhanbad.26,000
505. Jambad Selected ... Post Office
KajoragramShri Devji Gelabhai & others, Post
Office Kajoragram, Burdwan.4,85,000
506. Jaipuria Kajora ...Post Office OndalSwadeshi Mining & Manufacturing
Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.7,24,000
507. Jotejanki Khas ...Post Office ToposiMessrs. Banerjee Santan, Post Office
Toposi, Burdwan.2,12,000
508. Jambad Kajora ...Post Office SiduliJambad Kajora Colliery Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Siduli,
Burdwan.4,33,000
509. Jaykaynagar ...Post Office
Jaykaynagar,Aluminium Corporation of India
Limited, Post Office Jaykaynagar,
Burdwan.10,88,000
51Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
Location of the mine
2
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
510. Jamuria A and B
Pits ...Post Office NandiEquitable Coal Company Limited, 1 /2, Amount
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta-16.
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 411.
511. Jambad ...Post Office
Kajoragram.North Adjoy Coal Company, Post Office
Kajoragram, Burdwan.
15,000
512. Jamuna
Kanali New ...Post Office Mejia,
District Bankura.New Jamuna Kanali Colliery Company,
Post Office, Rajgaran, District Bankura.
4,000
513. Jamehari Selected. Post Office Raniganj
...Coal Products (Private) Limited Post
Office Nutandanga District, Burdwan.
4,000
514. Jotedhemo ...Post Office UkhraJotedhemo Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, 23/B, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta-1.
15,000
515. Jamehari Khas
East ...Post Office Searsol
Rajbari.Jamehari Khas Colliery Private Limited,
Post Office Searsol, Rajbari.
4,000
516. Jambad ...Post Office
Kajoragram.S.S. Devi‟s Jambad Coal Concern
(Private) Limited, 10, Akhil Mistri Lane,
Calcutta.
4,000
517. Jamuria 5 and
6 Pits ...Post Office
Charanpur.Equitable Coal Company Limited, 2,
Fairlie Place, Calcutta.
Amount in-
cluded in the
amount spe-
cified against
Sl. No. 411.
518. Jamuria 7 and
8 Pits ...Post Office Charanpur. Equitable Coal Company Limited, 2,
Fairlie Place, Calcutta.
Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 411.
519. Kasta Bengal ...Post Office ChuruliaKasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogue
Street, Calcutta.13,000
520. Kajora and
Post Office
Western Kajora ... Kajoragram.Shri K.C. Palchowdhury, Post Office
Kajoragram, Burdwan.2,07,000
521. Kajora (Guzdar) ... Post Office
Kajoragram.The Guzdar Kajora Coal Mines Limited,
Post Office, Kajoragram.2,24,000
522. Kajora Selected ... Post Office
RaniganjKajora Selected Colliery Company
Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.3,38,000
52Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
523. Khas Kajora ...Post Office
Kajoragram.Khas Kajora Coal Company Limited, 18, 21,09,000
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.
524. Khas Searsole ...Post Office Searsole
Rajbari.Kumar K.N. Maliah, Post Office,
Searsole Rajbari.
7,000
525. Krishnagar ...Post Office ToposiParasea Colliery Limited, 25, Netaji
Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.
1,18,000
526. Kunustoria ...Post Office ToposiBengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta-1.
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 432.
527. Kottadih ...Post Office KottadihEquitable Coal Company Limited, 1 /2, Amount
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta.
included in
the amount
specified
against Sl.
No. 411.
528. Kumardih ...Post Office UkhraKumardih Coal Company, Post Office
Ukhra, Burdwan.
11,19,000
529. Kumarkhala ...Post Office BahulaKumarkhala Colliery Company, Post
Office Bahula, Burdwan.
*
Rani H. Devi and Rani K. Devi, Post
Office Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan.
6,97,000
531. Kalipahari ...Post Office Kalipahari. Ghusick and Muslia Colliery Limited,
Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan.
4,03,000
532. Kuardih ...Post Office Kalipahari. Kuaridh Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 41, Chowringhee Road,
Calcutta-16.
39,82,000
533. Khas Baraboni ...Post Office Raghunath
Chak.A. K. Collieries Company, 34-A, Sardar
Sankar Road, Calcutta-29.
19,000
534. Khas Mohanpur ... Post Office SamdiLate Shri Ramgoti Hazra, Post Office
Kajoragram, Burdwan.
74,000
535. Khoirabad ...Post Office PanuriaM/s. Jamgram Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Bara Kalibari,
District Bankura.
51,000
536. Kalikapur ...Post Office Bara
Kalibari.Shri Harihar Banerjee and Others, Post
Office Bara Kalibari, District Burdwan.
4,000
530. Khas Chadbalpur ... Post Office
Jaykaynagar.
*
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. No. 598.
53
2,36,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
537. Kanyapur
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
Post Office Naturia.
4
5
Neturia Coal Company Limited, Post
Office Neturia, District Purulia.4,000
538. Khas Dhundabad ... Post Office Samdi.Nagrath Collieries Limited, Post Office
Sarodi.4,000
539. Khas Sitalpur ...N.H. Ojha Company (Private) Limited,
Clive Building, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta-1.4,000
540. Kajora (Roy Dutta) Post Office Kajoragram. Roy Dutta and Company, Post Office
...
Kajora, Burdwan.4,000
Post Office Ukhra
541. Khandra Sitalpur ...
N.H. Ojha Company (Private) Limited,
Clive Building, Netaji Subhas Road, Cal-
cutta-1.4,000
542. Khudika ...Post Office SalanpurSri Krishna Colliery, Post Office
Salanpur.4,000
543. Kalidaspur ...Post Office MejiaShri M.D. Chatterjee, 2, Thana Road,
Asansol.4,000
544. Khiratore Khas ...Post Office KhiratoreMessrs. Sankari Prasad Singh Deo, Post
Office, Panchakot Raj, Purulia.4,000
545. Khas Jambad ...Post Office UkhraShri Mohanlal Goenka, Post Office
Ukhra, Burdwan.11,000
546. Kumarpur ...Post Office Sitarampur Shri. M.M. Bose Borachak, Post Office
Sitarampur, Burdwan.4,000
547. Kankartola ...Post Office Kankartola Kankartola Collieries (Private) Limited,
Post Office Kankartola, Burdwan.75,000
548. Kasta ...Post Office ChuruliaKasta Coalfields Limited, 3, Synagogue
Street, Calcutta.26,000
549. Lachipur ...Post Office Kajoragram Katras Jherriah Coal Company, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta-1.10,53,000
550. Lower Kenda ...Post Office Kajoragram Khas Kenda Colliery Company (Private)
Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.5,49,000
551. Lohat ...Post office SalanpurShri Bhuramal Agarwal, Post Office
Salanpur Burdwan.64,000
Shri Sahadev Dutta, Birbhum.4,000
Messrs. Chandramal Indra Kumar
(Private) Limited, 3, Synagogue Street,
Calcutta-1.4,99,000
552. Lakshmi ...
553. Monoharbahal ...
Post Office Asansol
54Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
554. Mukherjee‟s Jote
Janaki ...Post Office Toposi
555. Madhujore ...Post Office Kajoragram Madhujore Coal Company (Private)
30,13,000
Limited, 135, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.
556. Mahabir ...Post Office Raniganj
Mahabir Collieries Limited, 178,
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta.
1,43,000
557. Moira ...Post Office Moira
Colliery
Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 9/1,
R.N. Mukherjee Road, Calcutta.
43,15,000
558. Mithapur ...Post Office Searsole
Rajbari
Shri Nirmal Kumar Geaulecha, 7/2, Babu
Lal Lane, Calcutta-7.
1,59,000
559. Modern Satgram ... Post Office Raniganj
West Bengal Mining Company, Post
Office Raniganj
12,98,000
560. Muslia ...Post Office Kalipahari
Ghusick and Muslia Collieries Limited,
Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan.
60,000
561. Mohanpur ...Post Office Samdi
S.N. Chaudhury & Company, Kartar
Nivas, Burnpur Road, Asansol.
1,19,000
562. Madhabpur ...Post Office Ondal
Madhabpur Coal Company, 3,
Synagogue Street, Calcutta.
1,54,000
563. Methani ...Post Office Sitarampur Equitable Coal Company, 1/2, Lord
Sinha Road, Calcutta.specified
564. Mondal‟s Nandi ... Post Office Nandi
Shri C.R. Mukherjee, Netaji Subhas
Road, Raniganj, Burdwan.
Mondal and Company, Post Office
Dishergarh.
27,000
Amount
included in
the amount
against Sl.
No. 411.
4,000
565. Middle Kajora & Post office Kajoragram Shri K.C. Pal Choudhury, Kajoragram.
Southern Kajora ...4,000
566. Mondalpur ...Post Office NandiMondalpur Coal Company Limited, Post
Office Neamatpur.4,000
567. Mangalpur ...Post Office RaniganjNew Beerbhoom Coal Company
Limited, Managing Agents M/s. Andrew
Yule and Company Limited, Post Box
150, Calcutta-1.4,000
Shri M.M. Chatterjee. Ondal.4,000
568. Sheikhpur ...
569. Mouthdih ...
Post Office Sunderchak Messrs. Mouthdih Coal, Company,
Dishergarh.
55
4,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
570. Madanpur ...
4
Ghanshyam Coal Industries (Private)
Limited, 9 Bhawani Dutta Lane,
Calcutta-7.
5
4,000
571. New Kenda ...Post Office Toposi572. North Jambad ...Post Office Kajoragram North Jambad Coal Company, Post
Office Kajoragram, Burdwan.98,000
573. North Searsole ...Post Office Searsole
RajbariSearsole Mining and Industries (Private)
Limited, Post Office Searsole Rajbari,
Burdwan.12,33,000
574. Nag‟s Kajora
Jambad ...Post Office UkhraShrimati Ashalata Nag and others, 4,
Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta.3,57,000
575. North Chora ...Post Office BahulaShri B.M. Dutta, North Chora Colliery
Company, Post Office Bahula, Burdwan.68,000
576. New Jamehari
Khas ...Post Office
JaykaynagarNew Jamehari Khas Colliery (Private)
Limited, Post Office Searsole Rajbari
Burdwan.13,47,000
577. New Satgram ...Post Office Devchand-
nagarShethia Mining and Manufacturing
Company Limited, 4, Bakul Bagan Row,
„Manohar Mahal‟, Calcutta 25.18,70,000
578. Nimcha ...Post Office RaniganjNimcha Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 1/1, Rowland Road, Calcutta
20.3,32,000
579. North Brook ...Post Office
JaykaynagarShri Bimal Kanti Roy, Post Office
Jaykaynagar.5,58,000
580. New Ghusick ...Post Office KalipahariWest Ghusick Coal Company Limited,
10, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.2,53,000
581. North Charanpur ... Post Office CharanpurShri B.N. Ganguly, Ushagram, Post
Office Asansol, Burdwan.18,000
582. North Ghusick ...Post Office MajiharaShri Ganesh Coal Company, Post Office
Asansol, Burdwan.36,000
583. New Damagoria... Post Office Salanpur
...New Damagoria Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan.4,06,000
584. North East Salanpur Post Office Samdi
...Shri A.R. Acharyya, Post Office
Heamatpur, Burdwan.1,28,000
585. North West
Salanpur ...Shri A.N. Mukherjee and others, Post
Office Samdi, Burdwan.32,000
Post Office Samdi
New Birbhum Coal Company Limited, 8, 41,23,000
Clive Row, Calcutta-1.
56Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
Location of the mine
2
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
586. New Bhagran ...Post Office Sitarampur Shri S. Banerjee (Nilachal), Post Office
Baraboni, Burdwan.4,000
587. North Poniati ...Post Office BaraboniShri B.B. Dutta, Post Office Baraboni,
Burdwan.18,000
588. New Ardhagram ... Post Office Ardhagram Shri B.P. Singhdeo, Post Office
Panchkotraj, District Purulia.
589. New Bamna ...
Post Office Salanpur
New Bamna Colliery Company, Mehta
Press, Asansol.
4,000
58,000
590. Nakrekonda
Baljuri.
Nabaghanapur
Maheshpur ...Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 15, Amount
India Exchange Place, Calcutta-1.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 654.
591. Nakrekonda and
Sarpi ...Western Bengal Coalfields Limited, 15, Amount
India Exchange Place, Calcutta- 1.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 654.
592. New South Bara-
boni ...Post Office BaraboniMessrs. Amiya Bala Ghose and Sons,
Post Office Baraboni.13,000
593. Narsamuda ...AsansolSanpukuria Asansol Colliery Limited, 18
Mission Row, Calcutta.4,000
594. North Mosila ...Post Office KalipahariNorth Mosila Colliery Company, Post
Office Kalipahari.4,000
595. New Begunia ...Post Office BarakarShri S.K. Mukherjee, Barakar.4,000
596. Nuni ...Post Office EthoraMukherjee P. (Rai Bahadur) G. T. Road
Delhi.4,000
Shri Jaladhar Mondal, Village Bonbiddi
Post Office, Salanpur.4,000
597. New Mangalpur ...
598. North Haripur ...
Post Office Ghore
Previously owned by Shri K.L. Dutta,
Amount
Post Office Bahula, Burdwan Dutta Pal included in
and Company, North Haripur Colliery, the amount
Post Office Bahula (Partners-K.L. Dutta specified
and D.N. Pal), Burdwan.
against
Sl.
No. 529.
57Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
599. New Madhapur ...
4
5
A.B. Ojha and Company, 23/B, Netaji
Subhas Road, Calcutta.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 618.
600. New Nandi ...Post Office NandiShrimati Gayatri Devi, wife of Shri
Subodh Mukherjee, Feeder Road,
Raniganj.
4,000
601. New Jamuria ...Post Office NandiSelected Satgram Collieries. Limited, 18
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta.
4,000
602. Palasthali ...Post Office ChuruliaPalasthali Coal Concern (Private)
Limited 53, Mechua Bazar Road,
Chinsura (Hooghly).
8,000
603. Pariarpur ...Post Office KalipahariShri Shewsiamal Agarwalla, Post Office
Sainthia, Birbhum.
4,000
604. Parbelia ...Post Office NeturiaBengal Coal Company Limited, 8 Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta-1.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
605. Patmohana ...Post Office Patmohana Messrs. Patmohana and Bharatchak
Collieries (Private) Limited, Post Office
Sitarampur, Burdwan.
606. Poidih ...Post Office Sunderchak Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta-1.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
607. Prossono Dutta‟s
Kajora ...Post Office Kajoragram Shri P.C. Dutta and Sons, 71A, Netaji
Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.
1,30,000
608. Parascole ...Post Office Kajoragram Parascole Coal Company, 18, Netaji
Subhas Road Calcutta-1.
16,56,000
609. Parasea ...Post Office Kajoragram Parasea Collieries Company, 25, Netaji
Subhas Road, Calcutta- 1.
29,19,000
610. Proper Kajora ...Post Office Kajoragram Shri Nimbarak Proper Kajora Coal
Company (Private) Limited, 135, Biplabi
Rash Behari Bose Road Calcutta-1.
1,27,000
58
9,45,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
*
611. Pure Bansra ...Post Office Raniganj612. Pure Jambad ...Post Office Kajoragram Pure Jambad Colliery Private Limited,
135, Canning Street, Calcutta.3,52,000
613. Pure Kajora ...Post Office Kajoragram East Barakar Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 18, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta.6,40,000
614. Pure Kenda ...Post Office UkhraPure Kenda Coal Company, Post Office
Ukhra, Burdwan.4,000
615. Pure Searsole ...Post Office Searsole
RajbariKumari Rani H. Devi, Post Office
Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan.2,48,000
616. Pansuli ...Post Office Nutandanga Krishna Valley Selected Coal Company,
Post Office Nutandanga.33,000
617. Pure Samla ...Post Office Nutandanga Sun Distributors and Mining Company
Limited, 14, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta.2,78,000
618. Pure Sitalpur ...Post Office UkhraPure Sitalpur Coal Concern (Private)
Limited 23-B, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta.619. Pansuli
Nutandanga ...Post Office GoglaShri D.T. Dhanuka, Post Office
Nutandanga, Burdwan.3,01,000
620. Pottery ...Post Office RaniganjBurn & Co., 12, Mission Row, Calcutta.4,000
621. Pretoria ...Post Office CharanpurSeebpor Coal Company Limited, 8,
Clive Row, Calcutta.4,000
Tara Iron and Steel Company Limited.4,000
Shri Pandaveswar Coal Company
Limited, Post Office Salanpur, Burdwan.4,000
624. Poniati Baraboni ... Post Office CharanpurShrimati Ashalata Nag and others, 4,
Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta-19.4,000
625. Premier Nandi ...Shri Sunil Kumar Mitra, 19/A, Dalimtala
Lane, Calcutta-6.4,000
622. Purushottampur and
Abhirampur ...
623. Pandaveswar ...
626. Pure Dalurband
(Near Samla
Dalurband) ...
*
†
Post Office Barakar
Post Office Nandi
Pure Kustore Colliery Company Limited, 10,39,000
8, Lyons Range Calcutta.
Pure Dalurband Coal Company, Post
Office Pandveswar, Burdwan.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI.No. 426.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 599 and 681.
59
†
3,50,000
Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 660.Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
45
627. Poniati MinesPost Office NandiKrishna Valley Selected Coal Company,
Post Office Nandi, Burdwan.11,000
628. Ramjibanpur
(Nag‟s) ...Post Office Sitarampur Ramjibanpur Coal Company Limited, 4,
Mandevilla Gardens, Calcutta.4,20,000
629. Ranipur ...Post Office Dishergarh Equitable Coal Company Limited, 1/2,
Lord Sinha Road, Calcutta.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 411.
630. Real Kajora ...Post Office Kajoragram Real Kajora Colliery Trust, 24, Strand
Road, Calcutta.1,48,000
631. Real Jambad ...Post Office BahulaOriental Coal Company (Private)
Limited, 25, Brabourne Road, Calcutta.4,66,000
632. Ratibati ...Post Office KalipahariWest Bengal Mining Company, Post
Office Kalipahari Burdwan.19,29,000
633. Radhamadhabpur ... Post Office KalipahariGhusick and Muslia Collieries Limited,
Post Office Kalipahari, Burdwan.71,000
634. Rana Number 6 Pit Post Office Kalipahari
...Lodna Colliery Company (1920)
Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta.635. Raniganj ...Bengal Coal Company, 8, Clive Row,
Calcutta.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
636. Radhaballavpur ... Post Office SamdiAutomotive Manufacturer‟s Agencies,
p- 27, Princep Street, Calcutta-13.14,000
637. Rangakanali ...Post Office SamdiMessrs Surajmal Gupta and others 135,
Biplabi Rashbehari Bose Road, Calcutta-
1.82,000
638. Real Salanpur ...Post Office SalanpurSalanpur Syndicate Limited, 3,
Synagogue Street, Calcutta.4,000
639. Real Raniganj ...Post Office RaniganjReal Raniganj Coal Company Limited,
Post Office Raniganj.4,000
640. Real Nandi ...Post Office NandReal Nandi Collieries Limited, 8/2, Hast-
ings Street Calcutta.4,000
*
Post Office Raniganj
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 669, 670 and 671.
60
*
94,66,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
Location of the mine
2
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
45
Selected Raniganj Collieries, 21, Ekdalia
Road, Calcutta.4,000
641. Russa ...Post Office Russa
642. Sanctoria ...Post Office Dishergarh Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
643. Seetalpur ...Post Office Dishergarh Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
644. Sodepur 9 and 10
Pits ...Post Office Sunderchak Bengal Coal Company Limited, 8, Clive Amount
Row, Calcutta-1.
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 432.
645. South
Joyramdanga ...Post Office Asansol
Dishergarh Coal Company Limited, 3,
Synagogue Street, Calcutta.
4,72,000
646. Searsole ...Post Office Raniganj
Searsole Coal Company Limited, 22,
Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta.
2,61,000
647. Singaran ...Post Office Toposi
Singaran Coal Syndicate Limited, 237-
P/lA, Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta.
1,02,000
648. Sitaldassji Selected Post Office
...
Searsole Raj-bari
Messrs. Puranmall Shreeniwas and
Brothers, Searsole Rajbari, Burdwan.
2,80,000
649. South Jambad ...Post Office
Kajoragram
South Parasia Collieries (Private)
Limited, 33, Canning Street, Calcutta-1.
8,000
650. South Parasia ...Post Office
Kajoragram
South Parasia Collieries (Private)
Limited, 25, Netaji Subhas Road,
Calcutta-1.
1,14,000
651. Samla
Baidyanathpur ...Post Office
Pandaveswar
Ashoku Mineral and Company, Post
Office Pandaveswar, Burdwan.
2,88,000
652. Samla
Chatrisgonda ...Post Office
Pandaveswar
Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing
Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta- 1.
2,31,000
61Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
653. Samla Dalurband ... Post Office
PandaveswarSamla Dalurband Coal Company
(Private) Limited, Post Office Jharia,
Dhanbad.654. Samla Manderboni Post Office
...
PandaveswarWestern Bengal Coalfields Limited, 9/1,
R.N. Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-1.*
655. Samla Kendra ...Post Office
PandaveswarSwadeshi Mining and Manufacturing
Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.11,34,000
656. Samla Pandaveswar Post Office
...
PandaveswarSwadeshi Mining and Manufacturing
Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta-1.2,25,000
657. Samla Ramnagar ... Post Office
PandaveswarSwadeshi Mining and Manufacturing
Company Limited, 33, Netaji Subhas
Road, Calcutta. .4,50,000
658. Sarpi Kajora ...Post Office UkhraSarpi Kajora Coal Mines (Private)
Limited, 33, Canning Street, Calcutta.6,49,000
659. Selected Kajora
Jambad ...Post Office
PandaveswarSelected Kajora Jambad Colliery, Post
Office Ukhra, Burdwan.1,31,000
660. Selected SamlaPost Office
PandaveswarSelected Dalurband Coal Company
(Private) Limited, 137, Cotton Street,
Calcutta-7.661. Siduli ...Post Office UkhraSiduli Colliery Company, Post Office
Ukhra, Burdwan.1,42,000
662. Sitalpur ...Post Office SiduliSitalpur Coal Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office Siduli, Burdwan.3,02,000
663. South Adjai ...Post Office GoglaGopal Collieries Limited, 174, Mahatma
Gandhi Road, Calcutta-7.4,000
664. Sunkerpore ...Post Office UkhraUkhra Minerals (Private) Limited, Post
Office Ukhra, Burdwan.4,17,000
665. Satgram
(Nageswar) ...Post Office Searsole
RajbariNageswar Coal Company Kargali
Colliery, Post Office Bermo, Hazaribah.4,75,000
666. Selected
Searsole ...Post Office RaniganjPuranmal Jagannath, Post Office Rani-
ganj.4,88,000
667. Sri Amritnagar
Selected ...Post Office RaniganjSriniwas and Sons, Post Office Raniganj. 14,41,000
*
†
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against SI. Nos. 590 and 591.
This amount includes the amount payable in respect of coal mines specified against 626.
62
6,25,000
24,67,000
†
7,04,000Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
345
668. Seebpore ...Post Office GharanpurKatras Jherriah Coal Company Limited,
8, Clive Row, Calcutta-I.4,000
669. Sripur Incline ...Post Office KalipahariLodna Colliery Company (1920)
Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta- I.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 634.
670. Sripur 1, 2 and 3
Pits ...Post Office KalipahariLodna Colliery Company (1920)
Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-I.Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 634.
671. Sripur 4, 5 and 6
Pits ...Post Office KalipahariLodna Colliery Company, (1920)
Limited, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-1,Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 634.
672. Samdi Sangramgarh Post Office Samdi
...B. Hazra and Company, Post Office
Samdi.3,44,000
673. Shibpur ...Manish Kumar Mukherjee and Doctor
A.K. Bhattacharjee, Post Office Shibpur,
Burdwan.4,000
674. Shri Ghanashyam ... Post Office KajoraGhanashyam Coal Industries (Private)
Limited, 7, Bhowani Dutt Lane,
Calcutta-7.53,000
675. Shabanpur ...Shridhar Mukherjee New Beerbhum
Coal Company, Burdwan.4,000
676. Selected Kajora ... Post Office RaniganjKajora Selected Colliery Company, 135,
Canning Street, Calcutta-I.4,000
677. Selected
Dhundabad ...Post Office SalanpurSelected Dhundabad Colliery Company,
Post Office, Salanpur.4,000
678. South Nawpara ...Post Office OndalPure Dishergarh Coal Company Limited,
51 , Garanhatta Lane, Calcutta.4,000
679. Sitalnagar ...Post Office Kajoragram Jagannath Buchasia and Others, Purna
Nibash Manison, Raniganj.4,000
680. Sree ...Post Office Charanpur4,000
Post Office Salanpur
Belbaid Colliery Limited, Post Office
Raniganj.
63Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
4
5
681. Sree Sitalpur ...Pure Sitalpur Coal Concern, 23/B,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.682. Selected Banskuri Post Office Mejia
...Selected Banskuri Colliery Company, 3,
Gangedhar Sarayan, Post Office Rani-
ganj.4,000
683. Santalmoutha ...Post Office NeturiaMoutha Dishergarh Coal Company, Post
Office Barakar.4,000
684. South Kenda ...Post Office ToposiSouth Kenda Coal Company (Ratanlal
Goenka and Surajbhan Ganeriwala), Post
Office Toposi.15,000
685. Sibdaspur ...Post Office SalanpurSibdaspur Colliery Company, Post
Office Sitarampur, Burdwan.4,000
686. Selected Jamuria ... Post Office NandiA.K. Goswamy, Post Office Birkulti,
Burdwan.4,000
687. Satpukuria ...Satpukuria and Asansol Collieries
Limited, 18, Mission Row, Calcutta4,000
Post Office
Pandavewsar
689. Salanpur A Seam ... Post Office SalanpurKalyanji Mavji and Company, 14, Netaji
Subhas Road, Calcutta.11,000
New Sergarh Coal Company, Post Office
Salanpur Burdwan.4,000
690. South East BaraboniPost Office Charanpur
Khas ...
691. Shyamsundarpur ... Post Office UkhraBharat Collieries Limited, 11, Clive
Row, Calcutta.4,000
Burdwan Collieries Limited, 5,
Synagogue Street, Calcutta.15,000
Post Office Asansol
688. South Samla ...
Amount
included in
the amount
specified
against
Sl.
No. 618.
692. Samla Govindpur ... Post Office Pandaveswar Samla Govnidpur Collieries (Private)
Limited, 33, Canning Street Calcutta-1.4,000
693. Selected Nandi ...Post Office SiduliJyotsna Devi, Post Office Sitarampur,
Burdwan.4,000
694. Saltore ...Post Office SaltoreBarakar Coal Company, Chartered Bank
Building, Calcutta.4,000
695. Selected Baraboni Post Office Charanpur
...Selected Baraboni Coal Company
Limited, Post Office Charanpur,
Burdwan.4,000
696. Toposi ...Associated Nandi Collieries Limited, 18,
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1.7,65,000
Post Office Toposi
64Sl. Name of the mine
No.
1
2
697. Tara ...
Location of the mine
Name and address of owners of the mine Amount (in
rupees)
3
Post Office Birkulti
698. Toposi Koradanga Post Office Toposi
...
45
Tara Colliery Limited, 19, Radha Nagar
Road, Burnpur, Asansol.1,07,000
Toposi Kordanga Coal Concern, Post
Office Topsoi, Burdwan.4,000
699. Uttar Dhadka ...Post Office Kajoragram New Beerbhum Coal Company, 8, Clive
Row, Calcutta.4,000
700. Upper Kajora ...Post Office Kajoragram Hari Prasad Bhan Singha, 29-A, Sir H.
Goenka Street, Calcutta-7.4,000
701. Victory Group ...Post Office Nutandanga Coal Products (Private) Limited, 3,
Bankshall Street, Calcutta.
702. Visheshari Khandra Post Office Ukhra
...
N.H. Ohja and Company, Gillander‟s
House, 18, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta.
12,55,000
9,37,000
703. Viceroy (Mandal‟s) Post Office Dishergarh B.N. Mandal and Company, Parekh‟s
...
Building, 22 Canning Street, Calcutta.4,000
704. Western Kajora ... Post Office Kajoragram Western Kajora Collieries (Private)
Limited, 178, Mahatma Gandhi Road,
Calcutta.2,37,000
705. West Baraboni ...Post Office Raghunath
ChakModern Coal Trading Company (Private)
Limited, Post Office, Raghunath Chak,
Burdwan.71,000
706. West Palasiha ...Post Office AsansolP.K. Agarwala and others (B.L.
Agarwala and Sons), Post Office Jharia.4,000
707. West Jamuria ...Post Office CharanpurWest Jamuria Coal Company Limited, 2,
Brabourne Road, Calcutta.4,000
Darjeeling Coalfield
708. Dalingkota ...Post Office Pillan‟s Hat Himalaya Coal and Mineral Industries,
Post Office, Bagrakote , Darjeeling.4,000
709. East Bagrakote ...Post Office Pillan‟s Hat Dalingkote Colliery, Post Office, Pillan‟s
Hat, Darjeeling.4,000
710. Cagu ...Post Office ManabariChoudhury and Chakravarty Chaturbhati,
Post Office, Bagrakote.4,000
711. Lithi Valley ...Post Office FaguB.D. Sharma, Darjeeling4,000
Explanation.—In this Schedule, wherever any amount, specified in the fifth column against a coal
mine, has been declared in the footnotes to include also the amount payable in relation to one or more
other coal mines, all the coal mines in relation to which such amount has been specified in the said
column as payable, shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to constitute a group of coal mines.
65