THE FOREST (CONSERVATION) ACT, 1980
________
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Last updated: 27-8-2021
_______
SECTIONS
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
2. Restriction on the dereservation of forests or use of forest land for non-forest purpose.
2A. Appeal to National Green Tribunal.
3. Constitution of Advisory Committee.
3A. Penalty for contravention of the provisions of the Act.
3B. Offences by authorities and Government departments.
4. Power to make rules.
5. Repeal and saving.
1THE FOREST (CONSERVATION) ACT, 1980
ACT NO. 69 OF 1980
[27th December, 1980.]
An Act to provide for the conservation of forests and for matters connected therewith or ancillary
or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the Forest (Conservation)
Act, 1980.
(2) It extends to the whole of India 1***.
(3) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 25th day of October, 1980.
2. Restriction on the dereservation of forests or use of forest land for non-forest purpose.—
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force in a State, no State
Government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the Central Government, any
order directing—
(i) that any reserved forest (within the meaning of the expression “reserved forest” in any law for
the time being in force in that State) or any portion thereof, shall cease to be reserved;
(ii) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.
2
[(iii) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be assigned by way of lease or otherwise to
any private person or to any authority, corporation, agency or any other organization not owned,
managed or controlled by Government;
(iv) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be cleared of trees which have grown
naturally in that land or portion, for the purpose of using it for reafforestation.]
3
[Explanation.—For the purposes of this section “non-forest purpose” means the breaking up or
clearing of any forest land or portion thereof for—
(a) the cultivation of tea, coffee, spices, rubber, palms, oil-bearing plants, horticultural crops or
medicinal plants;
(b) any purpose other than reafforestation,
but does not include any work relating or ancillary to conservation, development and management of
forests and wild life, namely, the establishment of check-posts, fire lines, wireless communications and
construction of fencing, bridges and culverts, dams waterholes, trench marks, boundary marks, pipelines
or other like purposes.]
4
[2A. Appeal to National Green Tribunal.—Any person aggrieved, by an order or decision of the
State Government or other authority made under section 2, on or after the commencement of the National
Green Tribunal Act, 2010, may file an appeal to the National Green Tribunal established under section 3
of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, in accordance with the provisions of that Act.]
3. Constitution of Advisory Committee.—The Central Government may constitute a Committee
consisting of such number of persons as it may deem fit to advise that Government with regard to—
(i) the grant of approval under section 2; and
(ii) any other matter connected with the conservation of forests which may be referred to it by the
Central Government.
[3A. Penalty for contravention of the provisions of the Act.—Whoever contravenes or abets the
contravention or any of the provisions of section 2, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a
period which may extend to fifteen days.
5
1. The words “except the State of Jammu and Kashmir” omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule
(w.e.f. 31-10- 2019).
2. Ins. by Act 69 of 1988, s. 2 (w.e.f. 15-3-1989).
3. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for the Explanation (w.e.f. 15-3-1989).
4. Ins. by Act 19 of 2010, s. 36 and Schedule III (w.e.f. 18-10-2010).
5. Ins. by Act 69 of 1988, s. 3. (w.e.f. 15-3-1989).
23B. Offences by authorities and Government departments.—(1) Where any offence under this Act
has been committed—
(a) by any department of Government, the head of the department; or
(b) by any authority, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was directly in
charge of, and was responsible to, the authority for the conduct of the business of the authority as well
as the authority,
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render the head of the department or any
person referred to in clause (b), liable to any punishment if the proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence punishable under the Act
has been committed by a department of government or any authority referred to in clause (b) of
sub-section (1) and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
is attributable to any neglect on the part, of, any officer, other than the head of the department, or in the
case of an authority, any person other than the persons referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1), such
officer or persons shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.]
4. Power to make rules.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House
of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
5. Repeal and saving.—(1) The Forest (Conservation) Ordinance, 1980 (17 of 1980) is hereby
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the provisions of the said
Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
3