THE COAL MINES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, 2015
____________
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
___________
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
2. Declaration as to expediency of Union action.
3. Definitions.
CHAPTER II
AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Eligibility to participate in auction and payment of fees.
Allotment of mines to Government companies or corporations.
Central Government to act through nominated authority.
Power to classify certain Schedule I coal mines by Central Government.
Nominated authority to issue vesting order or allotment order.
Priority of disbursal of proceeds.
CHAPTER III
TREATMENT OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF PRIOR ALLOTTEES
10. Utilisation of movable property used in coal mining operations.
11. Discharge or adoption of third party contracts with prior allottees.
12. Provisions in relation to secured creditors.
13. Void alienations and permitted security interests.
14. Liabilities of prior allottees.
15. Commissioner of payments to be appointed and his powers.
16. Valuation of compensation for payment to prior allottee.
CHAPTER V
POWERS OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT AFTER THE APPOINTED DATE
17. Responsibility of Central Government after appointed date.
18. Central Government to appoint designated custodian.
19. Powers and functions of designated custodian in respect of Schedule II coal mines.
1CHAPTER V
CERTAIN ARRANGEMENTS
SECTIONS
20. Power of Central Government to approve certain arrangements.
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
21. Acquisition of land.
22. Realisation of additional levy.
23. Penalties for certain offences.
24. Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Central Government.
25. Offences by companies.
26. Cognizance of offences.
27. Dispute settlement and Bar of Jurisdiction of civil courts.
28. Protection of action taken in good faith.
29. Act to have overriding effect.
30. Amendment of certain Acts contained in Schedule IV.
31. Power to make rules.
32. Power to remove difficulties.
33. Repeal and saving.
SCHEDULE I.
SCHEDULE II.
SCHEDULE III.
SCHEDULE IV.
2THE COAL MINES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, 2015
ACT NO. 11 OF 2015
[30th March, 2015.]
An Act to provide for allocation of coal mines and vesting of the right, title and interest in and over the
land and mine infrastructure together with mining leases to successful bidders and allottees with a
view to ensure continuity in coal mining operations and production of coal, and for promoting
optimum utilisation of coal resources consistent with the requirement of the country in national
interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
WHEREAS the Supreme Court vide judgment dated 25th August, 2014 read with its order dated 24th
September, 2014 has cancelled the allocation of coal blocks and issued directions with regard to such coal
blocks and the Central Government in pursuance of the said directions has to take immediate action to
implement the said order;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient in public interest for the Central Government to take immediate action
to allocate coal mines to successful bidders and allottees keeping in view the energy security of the
country and to minimise any impact on core sectors such as steel, cement and power utilities, which are
vital for the development of the nation;
AND WHEREAS Parliament is competent to legislate under entry 54 of List I of the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution for regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such
regulation and development under the control of Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient
in the public interest.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015.
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
(3) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 21st day of October, 2014.
2. Declaration as to expendiency of Union action.—It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the
public interest that Union should take action for the development of Schedule I coal mines and extraction
of coal on continuous basis for optimum utilisation.
3. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) ―additional levy‖ means, the additional levy as determined by the Supreme Court in Writ
Petition (Criminal) No. 120 of 2012 as two hundred and ninety-five rupees per metric tonne of coal
extracted;
(b) ―allotment order‖ means the allotment order issued under section 5;
(c) ―appointed date‖ in relation to—
(i) Schedule I coal mines excluding Schedule II coal mines, shall be the 24th day of
September, 2014 being the date on which the allocation of coal blocks to prior allottees stood
cancelled; and
(ii) Schedule II coal mines shall be the 1st day of April, 2015 being the date on which the
allocation of coal blocks to prior allottees shall stand cancelled,
in pursuance of the order of the Supreme Court dated the 24th September, 2014 passed in Writ
Petition (Criminal) No. 120 of 2012;
(d) ―bank‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of the Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);
(e) ―coal mining operations‖ means any operation undertaken for the purpose of winning coal;
3(f) ―company‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (20) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(g) ―corporation‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (11) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(h) ―financial institution‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (m) of section 2
of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);
(i) ―Government company‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (45) of section
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(j) ―mine infrastructure‖ includes mining infrastructure such as tangible assets used for coal mining
operations, being civil works, workshops, immovable coal winning equipment, foundations,
embankments, pavements, electrical systems, communication systems, relief centres, site administrative
offices, fixed installations, coal handling arrangements, crushing and conveying systems, railway sidings,
pits, shafts, inclines, underground transport systems, hauling systems (except movable equipment unless
the same is embedded in land for permanent beneficial enjoyment thereof), land demarcated for
afforestation and land for rehabilitation and resettlement of persons affected by coal mining operations
under the relevant law;
(k) ―nominated authority‖ means the authority nominated by the Central Government under
section 6;
(l) ―notification‖ means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(m) ―prescribed‖ means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(n) ―prior allottee‖ means prior allottee of Schedule I coal mines as listed therein who had been
allotted coal mines between 1993 and 31st day of March, 2011, whose allotments have been
cancelled pursuant to the judgment of the Supreme Court dated the 25th August, 2014 and its order
dated 24th September, 2014 including those allotments which may have been de-allocated prior to
and during the pendency of the Writ Petition (Criminal) No.120 of 2012.
Explanation.—In case a mining lease has been executed in favour of a third party, subsequent to
such allocation of Scheduled I coal mines, then, the third party shall be deemed to be the prior
allottee;
(o) ―Schedule‖ means a Schedule appended to this Act;
(p) ―Schedule I coal mines‖ means,—
(i) all the coal mines and coal blocks the allocation of which was cancelled by the judgment
dated 25th August, 2014 and its order dated 24th September, 2014 passed in Writ Petition
(Criminal) No.120 of 2012, including those allotments which may have been de-allocated prior to
and during the pendency of the said Writ Petition;
(ii) all the coal bearing land acquired by the prior allottee and lands, in or adjacent to the coal
mines used for coal mining operations acquired by the prior allottee;
(iii) any existing mine infrastructure as defined in clause (j);
(q) ―Schedule II coal mines‖ means the forty-two Schedule I coal mines listed in Schedule II
which are the coal mines in relation to which the order of the Supreme Court dated 24th day of
September, 2014 was made;
(r) ―Schedule III coal mines‖ means the thirty-two Schedule I coal mines listed in Schedule III or
any other Schedule I coal mine as may be notified under sub-section (2) of section 7;
(s) ―secured creditor‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (zd) of section 2 of
the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 (54 of 2002);
4(t) ―secured debt‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (ze) of section 2 of the
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 (54 of 2002);
(u) ―security interest‖ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (zf) of section 2 of
the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 (54 of 2002);
(v) ―specified end-use‖ means any of the following end-uses and the expression ―specified
end-user‖ shall with its grammatical variations be construed accordingly,—
(i) production of iron and steel;
(ii) generation of power including the generation of power for captive use;
(iii) washing of coal obtained from a mine;
(iv) cement;
(v) such other end-use as the Central Government may, by notification, specify;
(w) ―vesting order‖ means the vesting order issued under section 8.
(2) Words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), and the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (26 of 1973),
including any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the meanings, respectively assigned to
them in those Acts.
CHAPTER II
AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT
4. Eligibility to participate in auction and payment of fees.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section
5, Schedule I coal mines shall be allocated by way of public auction in accordance with such rules, and on
the payment of such fees which shall not exceed five crore rupees, as may be prescribed.
(2) Subject to the provisions in sub-section (3) of this section and section 5, the Central Government
may, for the purpose of granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of
any area containing coal, select any of the following companies through auction by competitive bidding,
on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed––
(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such company
or corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, or
any other company incorporated in India; or
(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more companies,
that carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own consumption, sale or for any
other purpose in accordance with the permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be, and
the State Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in
respect of any area containing coal to such company as selected through auction by competitive bidding
under this section.
(3) Subject to the provisions of section 5, the following persons who fulfil such norms as may be
prescribed, shall be eligible to bid in an auction of Schedule II coal mines and Schedule III coal mines
and to engage in coal mining operations in the event they are successful bidders, namely:––
(a) a company engaged in specified end-use including a company having a coal linkage which has
made such investment as may be prescribed.
Explanation.––A ―company with a coal linkage‖ includes any such company whose application is
pending with the Central Government on the date of commencement of this Act;
(b) a joint venture company formed by two or more companies having a common specified end-
use and are independently eligible to bid in accordance with this Act;
5(c) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such company or
corporation or with any other company having common specified end-use:
Provided that nothing contained in sub-section (2) shall apply to this sub-section.
(4) A prior allottee shall be eligible to participate in the auction process subject to payment of the
additional levy within such period as may be prescribed and if the prior allottee has not paid such levy,
then, the prior allottee, its promoter or any of its company of such prior allottee shall not be eligible to bid
either by itself or by way of a joint venture.
(5) Any prior allottee who is convicted for an offence relating to coal block allocation and sentenced
with imprisonment for more than three years, shall not be eligible to participate in the auction.
5. Allotment of mines to Government companies or corporations.––(1) Notwithstanding the
provisions contained in sub-sections (1) and (3) of section 4, the Central Government may allot a
Schedule I coal mine to a Government company or corporation or to a joint venture between two or more
Government companies or corporations or to a company which has been awarded a power project on the
basis of competitive bids for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects) from specified Schedule I coal
mines by making an allotment order in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed and the State
Government shall grant a reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of any
area containing coal to such company or corporation:
Provided that the Government company or corporation may carry on Coal Mining in any form either
for its own consumption, sale or for any other purpose in accordance with the permit, prospecting licence
or mining lease, as the case may be:
Provided further that no company other than a Government company or corporation shall hold more
than twenty-six per cent. of the paid-up share capital in the Government company or corporation or in the
joint venture between a Government company or corporation, either directly or through any of its
subsidiary company or associate company:
Provided also that a joint venture of any two or more Government companies or corporations shall be
prohibited from alienating or transferring any interest, except the taking of loans or advances from a bank
or financial institution, in the joint venture of whatsoever nature including ownership in favour of a third
party.
(2) No allotment under sub-section (1) shall be made to a prior allottee, if that allottee has not made
the payment of the additional levy within the specified period.
6. Central Government to act through nominated authority.––(1) The Central Government shall
appoint an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India as the nominated
authority who shall act for and on behalf of the Central Government for the purposes of this Act and shall
exercise such powers as may be prescribed.
(2) The nominated authority may engage any expert having such qualifications and experience and on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed to make recommendations to the authority for the
conduct of auction and in drawing up of the vesting order or allotment order in relation to Schedule I coal
mines.
(3) The Central Government shall act through the nominated authority for the following purposes,
namely:—
(a) conduct the auction process and allotment with the assistance of experts;
(b) execution of the vesting order for transfer and vesting of Schedule I coal mines pursuant to the
auction;
(c) executing the allotment order for any Government company or corporation in pursuance of
section 5;
(d) recording and mutating incorporeal rights of whatsoever nature including, consents,
permissions, permits, approvals, grants, registrations;
(e) collection of auction proceeds, adjustment of preferential payments and transfer of amount to
the respective State Governments where Schedule I coal mine is located in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
6(4) The nominated authority shall complete the auction or execute the allotment orders of Schedule I
coal mines within such time and in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
(5) The Central Government may appoint such other officers and staff as it may think fit to assist the
nominated authority.
(6) The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the nominated authority
and such other officers and staff appointed under this section shall be such as may be prescribed.
(7) The nominated authority shall be bound by the written direction given by the Central Government
on the quesiton of policy.
7. Power to classify certain Schedule I coal mines by Central Government.––(1) The Central
Government may, before notifying the particulars of auction, classify mines identified from Schedule I
coal mines as earmarked for the same class of specified end-uses.
(2) The Central Government may in public interest, by notification, modify Schedule III coal mines
by adding any other Schedule I coal mine for the purposes of specified end-use.
8. Nominated authority to issue vesting order or allotment order.––(1) The nominated authority
shall notify the prior allottees of Schedule I coal mines to enable them to furnish information required for
notifying the particulars of Schedule I coal mines to be auctioned in accordance with such rules as may be
prescribed.
(2) The information required to be furnished under sub-section (1) shall be furnished within a period
of fifteen days from the date of such notice.
(3) A successful bidder in an auction conducted on a competitive basis in accordance with such rules
as may be prescribed, shall be entitled to the vesting of Schedule I coal mine for which it bid, pursuant to
a vesting order drawn up in accordance with such rules.
(4) The vesting order shall transfer and vest upon the successful bidder, the following, namely:—
(a) all the rights, title and interest of the prior allottee, in Schedule I coal mine concerned with the
relevant auction;
(b) entitlement to a mining lease to be granted by the State Government;
(c) any statutory licence, permit, permission, approval or consent required to undertake coal
mining operations in Schedule I coal mines if already issued to the prior allottee;
(d) rights appurtenant to the approved mining plan of the prior allottee;
(e) any right, entitlement or interest not specifically covered under clauses (a) to (d).
(5) The nominated authority shall, in consultation with the Central Government, determine the floor
price or reserve price in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
(6) The successful bidder shall, prior to the issuance and execution of a vesting order, furnish a
performance bank guarantee for an amount as notified in relation to Schedule I coal mine auctioned to
such bidder within such time, form and manner as may be prescribed.
(7) After the issuance of a vesting order under this section and its filing with the Central Government
and with the appropriate authority designated by the respective State Governments, the successful bidder
shall be entitled to take possession of the Schedule I coal mine without let or hindrance.
(8) Upon the execution of the vesting order, the successful bidder of the Schedule I coal mine shall be
granted a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as applicable, by the concerned State Government in
accordance with the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957).
(9) A Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such company or
corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, or any other
company incorporated in India, allotted a Schedule I coal mine shall be granted a prospecting licence or a
mining lease, as applicable, by the concerned State Government in accordance with the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957).
7(10) In relation to Schedule II coal mines, the successful bidder which was a prior allottee, shall
continue coal mining operations after the appointed date in terms of the approved mining plan, till the
mining lease in terms of sub-section (8) is granted, upon the grant of a vesting order and to that extent, the
successful bidder shall be deemed to have been granted a mining lease till the execution of the mining
lease in terms of the said sub-section.
(11) In relation to Schedule II coal mines, the Government company or corporation which was a prior
allottee can continue coal mining operations after the appointed date in terms of the approved mining
plan, till the mining lease in terms of sub-section (9) is granted, upon execution of the allotment order and
to that extent, the allottee shall be deemed to have been granted a mining lease till the execution of the
mining lease in terms of the said sub-section.
(12) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) and sub-sections (4) to (7) (both inclusive) of this
section as applicable to a vesting order, shall mutatis mutandis be also applicable to an allotment order.
9. Priority of disbursal of proceeds.––The proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure in
relation to a Schedule I coal mine shall be disbursed maintaining, inter alia, the priority of payments in
accordance with the relevant laws and such rules as may be prescribed—
(a) payment to secured creditors for any portion of the secured debt in relation to a Schedule I,
coal mine which is unpaid as on the date of the vesting order;
(b) compensation payable to the prior allottee in respect of the Schedule I coal mine.
CHAPTER III
TREATMENT OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF PRIOR ALLOTTEES
10. Utilisation of movable property used in coal mining operations.––(1) A successful bidder or
allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mines, may negotiate with prior allottee to own or utilise such
movable property used in coal mining operations on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed
to by them.
(2) Where a successful bidder or allottee is not vested with any movable property of a Schedule I coal
mine, then, he is not bound by any liabilities or obligations arising out of such ownership or contractual
rights, obligations or liabilities which shall continue to remain with the prior allottee.
(3) In the event that the successful bidder or allottee is unable to satisfactorily negotiate with the prior
allottee or any third party who has a contract with the prior allottee for the movable property, it shall be
the obligation of the prior allottee or the third party to remove such movable property within a period not
exceeding thirty days from the date of the vesting order, or the allotment order, as the case may be, and
the successful bidder or allottee shall not be liable for any damage to such property.
(4) A successful bidder or allottee which has elected not to purchase or transfer or continue to use the
movable property referred to in sub-section (1), shall prior to the execution of the vesting order or the
allotment order, as the case may be, declare to the nominated authority that he intends to move and store
such movable property of the prior allottee or such third party and after the date of the vesting order or the
allotment order, as the case may be, the successful bidder or allottee shall be entitled to move and store
such movable property, so as not to cause any impediment for coal mining operations.
(5) If a prior allottee or such third party which has contracted with the prior allottee for its movable
property, fails to remove the movable property which the successful bidder or allottee has elected not to
purchase or use in accordance with sub-section (4), then, after the period of seventy-five days from the
vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may be, a successful bidder or allottee shall be entitled to
dispose of such movable property which may be physically located within Schedule I coal mine, the
successful bidder or the allottee, shall, in such event be entitled to appropriate the sale proceeds of such
movable property disposed of to pay for any cost incurred by the successful bidder or allottee, for the
removal, storage, sale and disposal of such movable property, as a first charge over the sale proceeds of
such movable property:
Provided that the remaining sale proceeds after appropriation of costs, shall be paid by the successful
bidder or allottee to the Central Government towards any compensation that may be payable to the owner
8of such movable property sold, upon establishment of title to such movable property in accordance with
such rules as may be prescribed:
Provided further that if a third party contractor to the prior allottee owns such movable property, then,
such third party shall be entitled to prove its right to receive compensation from the sale proceeds of the
movable property sold as per this sub-section, in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
11. Discharge or adoption of third party contracts with prior allottees.––(1) Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, a successful bidder or allottee, as the case
may be, in respect of Schedule I coal mines, may elect, to adopt and continue such contracts which may
be existing with any of the prior allottees in relation to coal mining operations and the same shall
constitute a novation for the residual term or residual performance of such contract:
Provided that in such an event, the successful bidder or allottee or the prior allottee shall notify the
nominated authority to include the vesting of any contracts adopted by the successful bidder.
(2) In the event that a successful bidder or allottee elects not to adopt or continue with existing
contracts which had been entered into by the prior allottees with third parties, in that case all such
contracts which have not been adopted or continued shall cease to be enforceable against the successful
bidder or allottee in relation to the Schedule I coal mine and the remedy of such contracting parties shall
be against the prior allottees.
12. Provisions in relation to secured creditors.––(1) The secured creditors of the prior allottees
which had any security interest in any part of the land or mine infrastructure of a Schedule I coal mine
shall be entitled to––
(a) continue with such facility agreements and security interest with the prior allottee if such prior
allottee is a successful bidder or allottee; and
(b) in the event that the prior allottee is not a successful bidder or allottee, then the security
interest of such secured creditor shall only be satisfied out of the compensation payable to such prior
allottee, to the extent determined in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed and the
outstanding debt shall be recoverable from the prior allottee.
(2) The Central Government shall, taking into consideration the provisions contained in section 9,
prescribe the manner in which the secured creditor shall be paid out of the compensation in respect of any
prior allottee.
13. Void alienations and permitted security interests.––Any and all alienations of land and mine
infrastructure and creation of any encumbrances of whatsoever nature thereon which relate to Schedule I
coal mines, made by any prior allottee after the 25th day of August, 2014 shall be void, save and except
any registered security interest and charge over the land and mine infrastructure as registered by a bank or
a financial institution or any other secured lender.
14. Liabilities of prior allottees.––(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the
time being in force, no proceedings, orders of attachment, distress, receivership, execution or the like,
suits for the recovery of money, enforcement of a security or guarantee (except as otherwise provided for
under this Act), prior to the date of commencement of this Act shall lie, or be proceeded further with and
no remedies shall be available against the successful bidder, or allottee, as the case may be, or against the
land and mine infrastructure in respect of Schedule I coal mines.
(2) The proceedings as referred to in sub-section (1), shall continue as a personal remedy against the
prior allottee but shall not be maintainable or continued against the land or mine infrastructure of
Schedule I coal mine or the successful bidder or allottee, pursuant to this Act.
(3) Every liability of any prior allottee in relation to a Schedule I coal mine in respect of any period
prior to the vesting order or allotment order, shall be the liability of such prior allottee and shall be
enforceable against it and not against the successful bidder or allottee or the Central Government.
(4) All unsecured loans shall continue to remain the liability of the prior allottee.
(5) The additional levy imposed against the prior allottees of Schedule II coal mines shall continue to
remain the liability of such prior allottees and such additional levy shall be collected by the Central
Government in such manner as may be prescribed.
9(6) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that—
(a) no claim for wages, bonus, royalty, rate, rent, taxes, provident fund, pension, gratuity or any
other dues in relation to a Schedule I coal mine in respect of any period prior to the date of vesting
order or allotment order, as the case may be, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or
the successful bidder or the allottee, as the case may be;
(b) no award, decree, attachment or order of any court, tribunal or other authority in relation to
any Schedule I coal mine passed prior to the date of commencement of this Act, in relation to the land
and mine infrastructure of Schedule I coal mines, shall be enforceable against the Central
Government or the successful bidder or the allottee, as the case may be;
(c) no liability for the contravention of any provision of law for the time being in force, relating to
any act or omission prior to the date of vesting order or allotment order, as the case may be, shall be
enforceable against the successful bidder or allottee or the Central Government.
15. Commissioner of payments to be appointed and his powers.––(1) For the purposes of
disbursing the amounts payable to the prior allottees of Schedule I coal mines, the Central Government
shall appoint an officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Government of India, to be the
Commissioner of payments.
(2) The Central Government may appoint such other officers and staff as it may think fit to assist the
Commissioner and thereupon the Commissioner may authorise one or more of such officers also to
exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by him under this Act.
(3) Any officer authorised by the Commissioner to exercise any powers may exercise those powers in
the same manner and with the same effect as if they have been conferred on him directly by this Act and
not by way of authorisation.
(4) The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the Commissioner and
other officers and staff appointed under this section shall be such as may be prescribed.
(5) The Central Government shall, within a period of thirty days from such date as may be notified,
pay to the Commissioner for payment to the prior allottee, an amount equal to the compensation
determined by the nominated authority.
(6) Separate records shall be maintained by the Commissioner in respect of each Schedule I coal mine
in relation to which payments have been made to him under this Act.
16. Valuation of compensation for payment to prior allottee.––(1) The quantum of compensation
for the land in relation to Schedule I coal mines shall be as per the registered sale deeds lodged with the
nominated authority in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed, together with twelve per cent.
simple interest from the date of such purchase or acquisition, till the date of the execution of the vesting
order or the allotment order, as the case may be.
(2) The quantum of compensation for the mine infrastructure in relation to Schedule I coal mines
shall be determined as per the written down value reflected in the statutorily audited balance sheet of the
previous financial year in accordance with such rules and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3) If the successful bidder or allottee is a prior allottee of any of the Schedule I coal mines, then, the
compensation payable to such successful bidder or allottee shall be set off or adjusted against the auction
sum or the allotment sum payable by such successful bidder or allottee, as the case may be, for any of the
Schedule I coal mines.
(4) The prior allottee shall not be entitled to compensation till the additional levy has been paid.
CHAPTER IV
POWERS OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT AFTER THE APPOINTED DATE
17. Responsibility of Central Government after appointed date.––(1) On and from the appointed
date, the Central Government or a company owned by the Central Government shall be deemed to have
become the lessee or licensee of the State Government in relation to each of the Schedule II coal mines, in
respect of which a mining lease or prospecting licence has been granted prior to the date of
commencement of this Act, as if a mining lease or prospecting licence in relation to such coal mine had
10been granted to the Central Government or a company owned by the Central Government and the period
of such lease or licence shall be the maximum period for which such lease or licence could have been
granted by the State Government under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, and thereupon all the rights
under such mining lease, including surface, underground and other rights shall be deemed to have been
transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government or a company owned by the Central Government.
(2) On the expiry of the term of any lease or licence, referred to in sub-section (1), such lease or
licence shall be renewed, by the State Government, in consultation with the Central Government for the
maximum period for which such lease or licence can be renewed under the Mineral Concession Rules,
1960.
(3) As it is considered expedient and necessary in the public interest and in view of the difficult
situation which has arisen, the powers of the State Government, under the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), to prematurely terminate a prospecting licence or
mining lease, shall stand suspended, in relation to Schedule I coal mines, for a period of one year from the
date of commencement of this Act or such other period as may be notified by the Central Government.
18. Central Government to appoint designated custodian.––(1) On and from the appointed date, if
the auction or allotment of Schedule I coal mines is not complete, the Central Government shall appoint
any person as a designated custodian to manage and operate such coal mines as may be notified by the
Central Government.
(2) The designated custodian shall act for and on behalf of the Central Government in respect of the
notified coal mines under sub-section (1) to operate and manage such Schedule I coal mines in such
manner as may be notified, till the completion of the auction of such coal mines or allotment under
section 4 and section 5 read with section 8, as the case may be.
19. Powers and functions of designated custodian in respect of Schedule II coal mines.––(1) The
designated custodian appointed under sub-section (1) of section 18, shall be entitled to take control and
possession of all lands, in or adjacent to Schedule II coal mines, and used for coal mining operations and
the mine infrastructure in relation to Schedule II coal mine, on behalf of the Central Government.
(2) The designated custodian may direct the prior allottees or any other persons in charge of the
management of the Schedule II coal mines and coal mining operations immediately before the appointed
date to provide the requisite manpower, as may be necessary, to ensure continuity in coal mining
operations and production of coal.
(3) The designated custodian shall receive, to the exclusion of all other persons, any monies due to
Schedule II coal mines, notwithstanding cases where such receipt pertains to a transaction made at any
time before the appointed date.
(4) The designated custodian may call for any information, records and documents in relation to
Schedule II coal mines and coal mining operations from any or all such persons who were in charge of the
management and operation of such Schedule II coal mines prior to the appointed date, and such persons
shall be bound to deliver to the designated custodian all such documents in their custody relating to
Schedule II coal mines.
(5) The designated custodian may appoint such consultants or experts, as may be necessary, in
relation to the management and operation of Schedule II coal mines.
(6) The designated custodian shall transfer the management and operation of any Schedule II coal
mines to such person in such manner as may be prescribed.
(7) The designated custodian shall have rights, liabilities and obligations as a prior allottee or a
successful bidder in respect of coal mines entrusted to it under section 18, to be exercised and discharged
in such manner as may be prescribed.
(8) The designated custodian shall have the power to perform such other functions which may be
consequential or incidental to the functions specified under this section.
(9) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the designated
custodian shall, in exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under this Act, be bound by
11such directions on questions of policy, as the Central Government may give in writing to it from time to
time.
CHAPTER V
CERTAIN ARRANGEMENTS
20. Power of Central Government to approve certain arrangements.––(1) A successful bidder or
allottee or coal linkage holder shall, with the prior approval of the Central Government and in accordance
with such rules as may be prescribed, be entitled to enter into certain agreements or arrangements with
other successful bidder or allottee or coal linkage holder, as the case may be, for optimum utilisation of
coal mine for the same end-uses in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies.
(2) A successful bidder or allottee may also use the coal mine from a particular Schedule I coal mine
for any of its plants engaged in common specified end-uses, in accordance with such rules as may be
prescribed.
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
21. Acquisition of land.––(1) All existing land acquisition proceedings under the Right to Fair
Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act,
2013 (30 of 2013), in relation to Schedule I coal mines, shall continue in respect of such areas of land in
accordance with the provisions of the said Act.
(2) All such areas of land which are not subject matter of land acquisition proceedings, in relation to
the coal mines, under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition,
Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (30 of 2013), may be proceeded with by the Central
Government in terms of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957).
(3) The State Governments which have initiated land acquisition proceedings under provisions of the
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act,
2013 (30 of 2013), and all such lands which are also subject matter of the said Act in respect of
Schedule I coal mines, shall—
(a) not transfer any land to the prior allottees which have been acquired under the said Act;
(b) continue the land acquisition proceedings till the appointed date;
(c) for such Schedule I coal mines which have not vested in the successful bidder or the allottee,
as the case may be, by the appointed date, continue the land acquisition proceedings for and on behalf
of the Central Government;
(d) upon the vesting or the allotment, as the case may be, after the appointed date, continue such
land acquisition proceedings on behalf of the successful bidder or the allottee.
22. Realisation of additional levy.––If a prior allottee of Schedule II coal mine fails to deposit the
additional levy with the Central Government within the specified time, then, such additional levy shall be
realised as the arrears of land revenue.
23. Penalties for certain offences.––If any person—
(a) obstructs or causes any impediment in taking possession or in the management and operation
of the Schedule I coal mines by the Central Government or the designated custodian; or
(b) fails to deliver to the designated custodian any books of account, registers or any other
document in his custody relating to Schedule I coal mines and coal mining operations in respect of
the management of which the designated custodian has been appointed; or
(c) destroys or misuses any mine infrastructure or coal stock; or
(d) retains any property of such coal mine or removes or destroys it,
he and any officer-in-default of the company shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years, or with the minimum fine of one lakh rupees per day and in the case of
12continuing failure, with a maximum fine of two lakh rupees for every day during which the failure
continues or with both, depending upon the nature of the offence.
24. Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Central Government.––If any person fails to
comply, without reasonable cause, with a direction given by the Central Government or nominated
authority or the designated custodian, he shall be punishable with a fine of one lakh rupees and in the case
of continuing failure with a maximum fine of two lakh rupees for every day during which the failure
continues, depending upon the nature of the offence.
25. Offences by companies.––(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company, every person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible
to, the company for the conduct of business of the company as well as the company shall be deemed to be
guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge and that he had exercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been
committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other
officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of
that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
26. Cognizance of offences.––No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this
Act or any rules made thereunder except upon complaint in writing made by a person authorised in this
behalf by the Central Government or nominated authority or the designated custodian.
27. Dispute settlement and Bar of Jurisdiction of civil courts.––(1) Any dispute arising out of any
action of the Central Government, nominated authority or Commissioner of payment or designated
custodian, or any dispute between the successful bidder or allottee and prior allottee arising out of any
issue connected with the Act shall be adjudicated by the Tribunal constituted under the Coal Bearing
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957).
(2) Where the Central Government is of the opinion that any dispute arising out of any issue
connected with the Act exists or is apprehended and the dispute should be adjudicated by the Tribunal
referred to in sub-section (1), then, the Central Government may by order in writing, refer the dispute or
any matter appearing to be connected with, or relevant to, the dispute, to the Tribunal for adjudication.
(3) The Tribunal referred to in sub-section (1) shall, after hearing the parties to the dispute, make an
award in writing within a period of ninety days from the institution or reference of the dispute.
(4) On and from the commencement of the Act, no court or other authority, except the Supreme Court
and a High Court, shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority, in relation to
matters connected with the Act.
28. Protection of action taken in good faith.–– No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie against the Central Government, nominated authority, commissioner of payment, or designated
custodian or any person acting on their behalf, in respect of anything which is done or intended to be done
in good faith under this Act.
29. Act to have overriding effect.––The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, or in any
instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.
30. Amendment of certain Acts contained in Schedule IV.––On and from the date of
commencement of this Act, the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (26 of 1973), and the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), shall stand amended in the manner
provided in Schedule IV. 31.
31. Power to make rules.––(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
and subject to the condition of previous publication, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.
13(2) In particular, and without prejudice the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide
for all or any of the following matters, namely:––
(a) the manner of allocation of Schedule I coal mines by way of public auction and details of fees
under sub-section (1) of section 4;
(b) the terms and conditions for granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining
lease and the manner and conditions of competitive bidding under sub-section (2) of section 4;
(c) norms to become eligible to bid in an auction and the amount of investment in respect of a
company having a coal linkage under sub-section (3) of section 4;
(d) the period within which the payment of additional levy by the prior allottee under
sub-section (4) of section 4;
(e) the allotment order to make allocations to a Government company or corporation under
sub-section (1) of section 5;
(f) the powers of the nominated authority under sub-section (1) of section 6;
(g) the manner of auction or allotment of Schedule I coal mines and execution of the vesting or
allotment orders under sub-section (4) of section 6;
(h) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the nominated
authority and other officers and staff under sub-section (6) of section 6;
(i) the manner of notifying the particulars of Schedule I coal mines to be auctioned and furnishing
of required information by the prior allottees under sub-section (1) of section 8;
(j) the manner of conducting auction and drawing of a vesting order under sub-section (3) of
section 8;
(k) determination of floor price by the nominated authority under sub-section (5) of section 8;
(l) the form and manner of furnishing of bank guarantee and the time within which such
furnishing of bank guarantee under sub-section (6) of section 8;
(m) the manner of disbursement of priority payments under section 9;
(n) the manner of establishing title of movable property by the prior allottee or third party who
has a contract with the prior allottee for the movable property under the first proviso to
sub-section (5) of section 10;
(o) the manner of receiving compensation from the sale proceeds of the movable property under
the second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 10;
(p) the manner in which the secured creditor paid out of the compensation in respect of any prior
allottee under sub-section (2) of section 12;
(q) the manner of collection of additional levy by the Central Government from the prior allottees
of Schedule II coal mines under sub-section (5) of section 14;
(r) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the Commissioner of
payments and other officers and staff under sub-section (4) of section 15;
(s) the manner of determination of compensation payable to prior allottee and the lodging of
registered sale deeds with the nominated authority under sub-section (1) of section 16;
(t) the method of determination of compensation for mine infrastructure in relation to Schedule I
and its reflection in the statutorily audited balance sheet under sub-section (2) of section 16;
(u) the manner of transfer of the management and operation of any Schedule II coal mines by the
designated custodian under sub-section (6) of section 19;
(v) the manner of exercising and discharging the rights, liabilities and obligations by the
designated custodian under sub-section (7) of section 19;
(w) the manner of providing agreements or arrangements for optimum utilisation of coal mine for
specified end-uses under sub-section (1) of section 20;
14(x) the manner of usage of coal mine by a successful bidder or allottee for any of its plants under
sub-section (2) of section 20;
(y) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
(3) Every rule made and every notification issued by the Central Government, under this Act, shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and
if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid,
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or notification, or both Houses agree that the
rule or notification should not be made, the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or
notification.
32. Power to remove difficulties.––(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing
the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each
House of Parliament.
33. Repeal and saving.––(1) The Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Second Ordinance,
2014 (Ord. 7 of 2014) is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance, shall,
without prejudice to the judgment of the Supreme Court dated 25th August, 2014 and its order dated 24th
September, 2014 passed in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 120 of 2012, be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
15SCHEDULE I
[See section 3(1) (p)]
SI.
No.
Name of Coal
Mine/Block
Name of Prior Allottee
3
State where Coal
Mine/Block
Located
121Tadicherla-IAndhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd.Telangana
2AnesttipaliAndhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd.Telangana
3Punkula-ChilkaAndhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd.Telangana
4PenagaddppaAndhra Pradesh Power Generation Corpn. Ltd.Telangana
5Namchik NamphukArunachal Pradesh Mineral Dev. & Trading CorporationArunachal Pradesh
6SayangAES Chhattisgarh Energy Pvt. LtdChhattisgarh
7Rajgamar Dipside
(Deavnara)API Ispat & Powertech Pvt. Ltd., CG Sponge
Manufacturers Consortium Coalfield Pvt. Ltd.Chhattisgarh
8Durgapur-II/ TaraimarBharat Aluminium Company Ltd.Chhattisgarh
9DatimaBinani Cement Ltd.Chhattisgarh
10TaraChhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
11Gare-Palma, Sector-IChhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
12Shankarpur Bhatgaon
II Extn.Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
13SondhiaChhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
14ParsaChhattisgarh State Electricity BoardChhattisgarh
15Vijay CentralCoal India Limited, SKS Ispat & Power Ltd.Chhattisgarh
16GidhmuriChhattisgarh State Electricity BoardChhattisgarh
17PaturiaChhattisgarh State Electricity BoardChhattisgarh
18Durgapur-II /SaryaDB Power Ltd.Chhattisgarh
19BhaskarparaElectrotherm (India) Ltd., Grasim Industries Ltd.Chhattisgarh
20West of UmariaSainik Finance and Industries Ltd. ( Earlier Garuda Clays
Ltd.)Chhattisgarh
21Morga IIGujarat Mineral Development CorporationChhattisgarh
22Gare-Palma Sector-IIIGoa Industrial Development CorporationChhattisgarh
23Madanpur SouthHindustan Zinc Ltd., Akshya Investment Pvt. Ltd.,
Chhattisgarh Steel & Power Ltd., Chhattisgarh Electricity
Corporation Ltd., MSP Steel & Power Ltd., Chhattisgarh
Captive Coal Mining Ltd. (Consortium of five Cos. )Chhattisgarh
24Nakia IIspat Godavari Ltd., Ind Agro Synergy Ltd., Shri Nakoda
Ispat Ltd., Vandana Global Ltd., Shree Bajrang Power &
Ispat Ltd.Chhattisgarh
16
41234
25Nakia IIIspat Godavari, Ind Agro Synergy, Shri Nakoda Ispat,
Vandana Global Ltd., Shree Bajrang Power & Ispat Ltd.Chhattisgarh
26Gare-Palma- IV/4Jayaswal Neco Ltd.Chhattisgarh
27Gare-Palma- IV/8Jayaswal Neco Ltd.Chhattisgarh
28Gare-Palma-IV/2Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)Chhattisgarh
29Gare-Palma-IV/3Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)Chhattisgarh
30Gare-Palma-IV/1Jindal Strips Limited (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)Chhattisgarh
31Gare-Palma IV/6Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., Nalwa Sponge Iron Ltd.Chhattisgarh
32Fatehpur EastJLD Yavatmal Energy Ltd., R.K.M. Powergen Pvt. Ltd.,
Visa Power Ltd., Green Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.,Vandana
Vidyut Ltd.Chhattisgarh
33Morga-IMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
34Morga-IIIMadhya Pradesh State Mineral Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
35Morga-IVMadhya Pradesh State Mineral Corporation LimitedChhattisgarh
36Gare-Palma Sector-IIMaharashtra State Mining Corpn. Ltd. Tamil Nadu State
Electricity BoardChhattisgarh
37Gare-Palma-IV/5Monet Ispat Ltd.Chhattisgarh
38Rajgamar Dipside (South
of Phulakdih Nala)Monnet Ispat and Energy Ltd., Topworth Steel Pvt. Ltd.Chhattisgarh
39TalaipaliNational Thermal Power Ltd.Chhattisgarh
40ChotiaPrakash Industries Ltd.Chhattisgarh
41Gare-Palma-IV/7Raipur Alloys & Steel Ltd. (Now Sarda Energy and
Mineral Limited)Chhattisgarh
42Parsa EastRajasthan Rajya
(RRVUNL)Chhattisgarh
43Kesla NorthRathi Udyog Ltd.44Kanta BasanRajasthan Rajya
(RRVUNL)45PanchbahaniShree Radhe Industries Ltd.Chhattisgarh
46FatehpurSKS Ispat and Power Ltd., Prakash Industries Ltd.Chhattisgarh
47Madanpur (North)Ultratech Ltd., Singhal Enterprise Ltd. , Nav Bharat
Coalfield Ltd., Vandana Energy & Steel Pvt. Ltd.,
Prakash Industries Ltd., Anjani Steel Pvt. Ltd.,
Chhattisgarh Captive Coal Mining Ltd. (Consortium of
five Co. )Chhattisgarh
48BrindaAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
49SasaiAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
50MeralAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
51SeregarhaArcelor Mittal India Ltd., GVK Power (Govindwal
Sahib) Ltd.Jharkhand
Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
Vidyut
17
Utpadan
Nigam
Ltd.
Chhattisgarh1
2
3
4
52Patal EastBhushan Power and Steel Ltd.Jharkhand
53Saria KoiyatandBihar Rajya Khanij Vikas Nigam (BRKVN) Patna.Jharkhand
54MacherkundaBihar Sponge Iron Ltd.Jharkhand
55BrahmadihaCastron Technologies Ltd.Jharkhand
56MahuagarhiCalcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd. (CESC),
Jas Infrastructure Capital Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
57ChitarpurCorporate Ispat Alloys Ltd.Jharkhand
58Saharpur JamarpaniDamodar Valley CorporationJharkhand
59Lalgarh (North)Domco Smokeless Fuel Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
60Parbatpur-CentralElectrosteel castings Ltd.Jharkhand
61ChaklaEssar Power Ltd.Jharkhand
62Ashok Karkatta CentralEssar Power Ltd.Jharkhand
63JainagarGujarat Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC)Jharkhand
64Tokisud NorthGVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd.Jharkhand
65TubedHindalco Industries Ltd., Tata Power Company Ltd.Jharkhand
66MoitraJayaswal Neco Ltd.Jharkhand
67North DhaduJharkhand Ispat Pvt. Ltd., Pavanjay Steel & Power Ltd.,
Electrosteel castings Ltd., Adhunik Alloys & Power LtdJharkhand
68BanhardihJharkhand State Electricity BoardJharkhand
69Sugia Closed mineJharkhand State Mineral Development CorporationJharkhand
70Rauta Closed mineJharkhand State Mineral Development CorporationJharkhand
71Burakhap small patchJharkhand State Mineral Development CorporationJharkhand
72Pindra-Debipur
KhaowatandJharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.Jharkhand
73LateharJharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.Jharkhand
74PatratuJharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.Jharkhand
75Rabodih OCPJharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.Jharkhand
76Jogeshwar & Khas
JogeshwarJharkhand State Mineral Development CorporationJharkhand
77JitpurJindal Steel & Power Ltd.Jharkhand
78Amarkonda MurgadangalJindal Steel and Power Ltd.,Gagan Sponge Iron Pvt.
Ltd.Jharkhand
79Urma PaharitolaJharkhand State Electricity Board, Bihar State Mineral
Development Corporation Ltd.Jharkhand
80RohneJSW Steel Ltd., Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd., Jai Balaji
Industries LtdJharkhand
81GomiaMetals and Minerals Trading CorporationJharkhand
1812
3
82Rajhara North (Central &
Eastern)Mukund Limited,Vini Iron & Steel Udyog LimitedJharkhand
83DumriNilachal Iron & Power Ltd., Bajrang Ispat Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
84KerandariNational Thermal Power Ltd.Jharkhand
85Chhatti BariatuNational Thermal Power Ltd.Jharkhand
86Chhati Bariatu SouthNational Thermal Power Ltd.Jharkhand
87BrahminiNational Thermal Power Ltd.+ Coal India Limited JVJharkhand
88Chichro PatsimalNational Thermal Power Ltd.+ Coal India Limited JVJharkhand
89Pachwara CentralPunjab State Electricity BoardJharkhand
90MahalRashtriya Ispat Nigam LimitedJharkhand
91Tenughat-JhirkiRashtriya Ispat Nigam LimitedJharkhand
92BunduRungta Mines LimitedJharkhand
93MedniraiRungta Mines Limited, Kohinoor Steel (P) Ltd.Jharkhand
94Choritand TiliayaRungta Mines Limited, Sunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.Jharkhand
95SitanalaSteel Authority of India Ltd.Jharkhand
96GaneshpurTata Steel Ltd., Adhunik Thermal EnergyJharkhand
97BadamTenughat Vidyut Nigam LimitedJharkhand
98Rajbar E&DTenughat Vidyut Nigam LimitedJharkhand
99GondulparaTenughat Vidyut Nigam Limited, Damodar Valley
CorporationJharkhand
100Kotre-BasantpurTata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. ( Now Tata Steel Ltd.)Jharkhand
101PachmoTata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. ( Now Tata Steel Ltd.)Jharkhand
102LohariUsha Martin Ltd.Jharkhand
103KathautiaUsha Martin Ltd.Jharkhand
104Pachwara NorthWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)Jharkhand
105SuliyariAndhra Pradesh Mineral Development CorporationMadhya Pradesh
106BikramBirla Corporation Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
107Gotitoria (East)BLA Industries Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
108Gotitoria (West)BLA Industries Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
109MahanEssar Power Ltd., Hindalco Industries Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
110Mandla NorthJaipraskash Associates Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
111Urtan NorthJindal Steel & Power Ltd., Monet Ispat and Energy Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
112Thesgora-B/ RudrapuriKamal Sponge Steel & Power Limited, Revati Cement P.
Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
113AmeliaMadhya Pradesh State Mining CorporationMadhya Pradesh
114Amelia (North)Madhya Pradesh State Mining CorporationMadhya Pradesh
19
412
3
115Mandla SouthMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
116Dongeri Tal-IIMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd.
(MPSMC)Madhya Pradesh
117Marki BarkaMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation (MPSMC)Madhya Pradesh
118Semaria/PipariaMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation (MPSMC)Madhya Pradesh
119BicharpurMadhya Pradesh
(MPSMC)Madhya Pradesh
120Tandsi-III & Tandsi -III
(Extn.)Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
121Sahapur EastNational Mineral Dev. Corp.Madhya Pradesh
122Sahapur WestNational Mineral Dev. Corp.Madhya Pradesh
123Mara II MahanNCT of Delhi, Delhi, Haryana Power Generation Corp.
Ltd . (HPGCL)Madhya Pradesh
124Sial GhoghriPrism Cement LimitedMadhya Pradesh
125BrahampuriPushp Steel and Mining Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
126Rawanwara NorthSKS Ispat LimitedMadhya Pradesh
127BanderAMR Iron & Steels Pvt. Ltd., Century Textiles &
Industries Ltd., J.K.Cement Ltd.Maharashtra
128Marki Mangli-IB.S. Ispat Ltd.Maharashtra
129Takli-Jena-Bellora (North)
& Takli-Jena-Bellora
(South)Central Collieries Co. Ltd. and Lloyds Metals &
Engineering Ltd.Maharashtra
130Dahegaon/ Makard hokra-
IVIST Steel & Power Ltd., Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd.,
Lafarge India Pvt. Ltd.Maharashtra
131GondkhariMaharashtra Seamless Limited, Dhariwal Infrastructure
(P) Ltd., Kesoram Industries Ltd.Maharashtra
132Marki-Zari-Jamani-AdkoliMaharashtra State Mining Corpn. Ltd.Maharashtra
133Lohara (East)Murli Industries Ltd., Grace Industries Ltd.Maharashtra
134Khappa & Extn.Sunflag Iron & Steel Ltd., Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd.Maharashtra
135Lohara West Extn.Adani Power Ltd.Maharashtra
136Warora West (North)Bhatia International Ltd.Maharashtra
137Kosar DongergaonChaman Metaliks Ltd.Maharashtra
138Warora (West) Southern
PartFieldmining & Ispat Ltd.Maharashtra
139ChinoraFieldmining & Ispat Ltd.Maharashtra
140MajraGondwana Ispat Ltd.Maharashtra
141Nerad MalegaonGupta Metallics & Power Ltd., Gupta Coalfields &
Washeries Ltd.Maharashtra
142Baranj - IKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
143Baranj - IIKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
State
20
Mining
4
Corporation
Ltd.1
2
3
4
144Baranj - IIIKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
145Baranj - IVKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
146KiloniKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
147Manora DeepKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)Maharashtra
148AgarzariMaharashtra
(MSMCL)StateMiningCorporationLimitedMaharashtra
149WaroraMaharashtra
(MSMCL)StateMiningCorporationLimitedMaharashtra
150Bhandak WestShree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd.Maharashtra
151Marki Mangli-IIShree Veerangana Steel Limited.Maharashtra
152Marki Mangli-IIIShree Veerangana Steel Limited.Maharashtra
153Marki Mangli-IVShree Veerangana Steel Limited.Maharashtra
154BelgaonSunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.Maharashtra
155Mandakini BAssam Mineral Dev. Corporation Ltd., Meghalaya
Mineral Dev. Corp., Tamil Nadu Electricity Board,
Odisha Mining Corporation Ltd.Odisha
156New PatraparaBhusan Steel & Strips Ltd., Adhunik Metaliks Ltd.,
Deepak Steel & Power Ltd., Adhunik Corp. Ltd., Odisha
Sponge Iron Ltd., SMC Power Generation Ltd., Sree
Metaliks Ltd.,Visa Steel Ltd.Odisha
157BijahanBhushan Ltd., Shri Mahavir Ferro Alloys Pvt. LimitedOdisha
158JamkhaniBhushan Ltd.Odisha
159NainiGujarat Mineral Development Corporation, Puducherry
Industrial Promotion Development and Investment
Corporation LimitedOdisha
160MahanadiGujarat State Electricity Corporation
Maharashtra State Electricity BoardLimited,Odisha
161MachhakataGujarat State Electricity Corporation
Maharashtra State Electricity BoardLimited,Odisha
162Talabira-IHindalco Industries Ltd.Odisha
163Ramchandi Promotion
BlockJindal Steel & Power LimitedOdisha
164Utkal B 1Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.Odisha
165Baitarni WestKerala State Electricity Board, Odisha Hydro Power
Corp., Gujarat Power Corporation Ltd.Odisha
166Talabira II & III.Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL), Neyveli Lignite
Corporation Ltd., Hindalco Industries LtdOdisha
167Utkal-AMahanadi Coalfields Ltd. (MCL), JSW Steels Ltd., Jindal
Thermal Power Comp. Ltd., Jindal Stainless Steels Ltd.,
Shyam DRI Ltd.Odisha
168Utkal-B2Monet Ispat Ltd.Odisha
211
2
3
4
169MandakiniMonet Ispat Energy Ltd., Jindal Photo Ltd., Tata Power
Company Ltd.Odisha
170Utkal  ̳E‘National Aluminium CorporationOdisha
171DulangaNational Thermal Power CorporationOdisha
172Utkal-DOdisha Mining CorporationOdisha
173Nuagaon TelisahiOdisha Mining Corporation, Andhra Pradesh Mineral
Development (APMDC)Odisha
174ManoharpurOdisha Power Generation CorporationOdisha
175Dipside ManoharpurOdisha Power Generation CorporationOdisha
176Radhikapur (West)Rungta Mines Limited, OCL India Ltd., Ocean Ispat
Ltd.Odisha
177RampiaSterlite Energy Ltd., (IPP), GMR Energy Ltd. (IPP),
Arcelor Mittal India Ltd. (CPP), Lanco Group Ltd.
(IPP), Navbharat Power Pvt. Ltd. (IPP), Reliance
Energy Ltd. (IPP)Odisha
178Dip Side of RampiaSterlite Energy Ltd., (IPP), GMR Energy (IPP), Arcelor
Mittal India Ltd. (CPP), Lanco Group Ltd. (IPP),
Navbharat Power Pvt. Ltd. (IPP), Reliance Energy Ltd.
(IPP)Odisha
179North of Arkhapal
SrirampurStrategic
(SETSL)LimitedOdisha
180Radhikapur (East)Tata Sponge Iron Ltd, Scaw Industries Ltd., SPS
Sponge Iron Ltd.Odisha
181ChendipadaUttar Pradesh Rajya
Chattishgarh Mineral
Limited, Maharashtra
Corporation Ltd.Vidut Utpadan Limited,
Development Corporation
State Power GenerationOdisha
182Chendipada-IIUttar Pradesh Rajya
Chattishgarh Mineral
Limited, Maharashtra
Corporation Ltd.Vidut Utpadan Limited,
Development Corporation
State Power GenerationOdisha
183Utkal-CUtkal Coal Ltd. (formerly ICCL)Odisha
184BiharinathBankura DRI Mining Manufacturers Co. Pvt. Ltd.West Bengal
185Andal EastBhushan Steel Ltd., Jai Balaji Industries Ltd., Rashmi
Cement Ltd.West Bengal
186Barjora (North)Damodar Valley CorporationWest Bengal
187Kagra JoydevDamodar Valley CorporationWest Bengal
188Kasta (East)Damodar Valley CorporationWest Bengal
189Gourangdih ABCHimachal EMTA Power Ltd., JSW Steel Ltd.West Bengal
190Moira-Madhujore.Ramsarup Lohh Udyog Ltd., Adhunik Corporation
Ltd., Uttam Galva Steels Ltd., Howrah Gases
Ltd.,Vikas Metal & Power Ltd., ACC LtdWest Bengal
191SarisatolliCalcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd.West Bengal
Energy
Technology
22
Systems1
2
3
4
192ArdhagramSova Ispat Limited, Jaibalaji Sponge Ltd.West Bengal
193Tara (West)West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)West Bengal
194GangaramchakWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)West Bengal
195BarjoraWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)West Bengal
196Gangaramchak- BhaduliaWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)West Bengal
197Tara (East)West Bengal State Electricity BoardWest Bengal
198Jaganathpur BWest Bengal Mineral Development & Trading Corp.West Bengal
199SitarampurWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.West Bengal
200Trans DamodarWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.West Bengal
201IchhapurWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.West Bengal
202KultiWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.West Bengal
203Jaganathpur AWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.West Bengal
204East of Damogoria
(Kalyaneshwari)West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited
(WBPDCL)West Bengal
23SCHEDULE II
[See section 3(1) (q)]
Sl.Name of CoalName of Prior AllotteeState whereCoal
Mine/Block
Located
No.Mine/Block1234
1Namchik NamphukArunachal Pradesh
Corporation
2Gare-Palma- IV/4Jayaswal Neco Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
3Gare-Palma-IV/2Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)
Chhattisgarh
4Gare-Palma-IV/3Jindal Power Ltd. (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)
Chhattisgarh
5Gare-Palma-IV/1Jindal Strips Limited (Now Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.)
Chhattisgarh
6Gare-Palma-IV/5Monet Ispat Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
7ChotiaPrakash Industries Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
8Gare-Palma-IV/7Raipur Alloys & Steel Ltd. (Now Sarda Energy and Chhattisgarh
Mineral Limited)
9Parsa EastRajasthan Rajya
(RRVUNL)
Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
10Kanta BasanRajasthan Rajya
(RRVUNL)
Vidyut
Utpadan
Nigam
Ltd.
Chhattisgarh
11Parbatpur-CentralElectrosteel Castings Ltd.
Jharkhand
12Tokisud NorthGVK Power (Govindwal Sahib) Ltd.
Ltd. Jharkhand
13Pachwara CentralPunjab State Electricity Board
Jharkhand
14KathautiaUsha Martin Ltd.
Jharkhand
15Pachwara NorthWest Bengal Power
Limited (WBPDCL)
16Gotitoria (East)BLA Industries Ltd.
Madhya Pradesh
17Gotitoria (West)BLA Industries Ltd.
Madhya Pradesh
18Mandla NorthJaipraskash Associates Ltd.
Madhya Pradesh
19Amelia (North)Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation
Madhya Pradesh
20BicharpurMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
(MPSMC)
21Sial GhoghriPrism Cement Limited
Madhya Pradesh
22Marki Mangli-IB.S. Ispat Ltd.
Maharashtra
23Baranj - IKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
24Baranj - IIKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
25Baranj - IIIKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
26Baranj - IVKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
27KiloniKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
24
Mineral
Dev.
Development
&
Trading Arunachal Pradesh
Corporation Jharkhand1
2
3
4
28 Manora DeepKarnataka Power Corp. Ltd. (KPCL)
Maharashtra
29 Marki Mangli-IIShree Veerangana Steels Limited.
Maharashtra
30 Marki Mangli-IIIShree Veerangana Steels Limited.
Maharashtra
31 BelgaonSunflag Iron & Steel Co. Ltd
Maharashtra
32 Talabira-IHindalco Industries Ltd.
Odisha
33 Barjora (North)Damodar Valley Corporation
West Bengal
34 Kagra JoydevDamodar Valley Corporation
West Bengal
35 SarisatolliCalcutta Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd.
West Bengal
36 ArdhagramSova Ispat Limited, Jai Balaji Sponge Ltd.
West Bengal
37 Tara (West)West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited West Bengal
(WBPDCL)
38 GangaramchakWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited West Bengal
(WBPDCL)
39 BarjoraWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited West Bengal
(WBPDCL)
40 Gangaramchak- BhaduliaWest Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited West Bengal
(WBPDCL)
41 Tara (East)West Bengal State Electricity Board
West Bengal
42 Trans DamodarWest Bengal Mineral Dev. & Trading Corp. Ltd.
West Bengal
25SCHEDULE III
[See section 3(1) (r)]
SI.Name of Coal
No.Mine/Block
Name of Prior Allottee
3
State where Coal
Mine/Block
Located
121Durgapur-II/ TaraimarBharat Aluminium Company Ltd.Chhattisgarh
2Durgapur-II /SaryaDB Power Ltd.Chhattisgarh
3Gare-Palma Sector-IIIGoa Industrial Development CorporationChhattisgarh
4Gare-Palma IV/8Jayaswal Neco Ltd.Chhattisgarh
5TalaipaliNational Thermal Power Ltd.Chhattisgarh
6Chatti BariatuNational Thermal Power Ltd.Jharkhand
7MahanEssar Power Ltd., Hindalco Industries Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
8Mandla SouthMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd.Madhya Pradesh
9Dongeri Tal-IIMadhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd. Madhya Pradesh
(MPSMC)
10Kosar DongergaonChaman Metaliks Ltd.11Nerad MalegaonGupta Metallics & Power Ltd., Gupta Coalfields & Maharashtra
Washeries Ltd.
12Marki Mangli-IVShree Veerangana Steel Limited.Maharashtra
13JamkhaniBhushan Ltd.Odisha
14Utkal B 1Jindal Steel & Power Ltd.Odisha
15Utkal-B 2Monet Ispat Ltd.Odisha
16MandakiniMonet Ispat Energy Ltd., Jindal Photo Ltd., Tata Odisha
Power Company Ltd.
17Utkal-CUtkal Coal Ltd. (formerly ICCL)Odisha
18BrindaAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
19SasaiAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
20MeralAbhijeet Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
21MoitraJayaswal Neco LtdJharkhand
22JitpurJindal Steel & Power Ltd.Jharkhand
23RohneJSW Steel Ltd., Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd., Jai Balaji Jharkhand
Industries Ltd.
24DumriNilachal Iron & Power Ltd., Bajrang Ispat Pvt. Ltd.Jharkhand
25KerandariNational Thermal Power Ltd.Jharkhand
26SitanalaSteel Authority of India Ltd.Jharkhand
27GaneshpurTata Steel Ltd., Adhunik Thermal EnergyJharkhand
26
4
Maharashtra1
2
3
4
28BadamTenughat Vidyut Nigam LimitedJharkhand
29TaraChhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation Ltd.Chhattisgarh
30LohariUsha Martin Ltd.Jharkhand
31DulangaNational Thermal Power CorporationOdisha
32ManoharpurOdisha Power Generation CorporationOdisha
27SCHEDULE IV
(See section 28)
PART A
THE COAL MINES (NATIONALISATION) ACT, 1973
(26 OF 1973)
1. Amendment of section IA.—In the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (herein referred to as
the principal Act), in sub-section (1) of section 1A, after the word and figure ―section 3‖, the word, figure
and letter ―, section 3A‖ shall be inserted.
2. Insertion of new section 3A.—After section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—
‘3A. Mining operation by company and others.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, any person being—
(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such
company or corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the case
may be, or any other company incorporated in India; or
(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more companies,
may carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own consumption, sale or for
any other purpose in accordance with the prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government may, with a view to rationalise such coal mines so as to ensure the
coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources consistent with the growing
requirements of the country, from time to time, prescribe—
(i) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location;
(ii) the minimum size of the coal mine or coal bearing areas;
(iii) such other conditions,
which in the opinion of that Government may be necessary for the purpose of coal mining operations
or mining for sale by a company.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, ―company‖ means a company as defined in
clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).‘.
3. Amendment of section 34.—In section 34 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (a),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
―(aa) the coal mines or coal bearing areas and their location, the minimum size of the coal mine
or coal bearing areas, and such other conditions which may be necessary for the purpose of coal
mining operations including mining for sale by a company under sub-section (2) of section 3A.‖.
PART B
THE MINES AND MINERALS (DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATION) ACT, 1957
(67 OF 1957)
1. Substitution of new section for section 11A.—In the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (herein referred to as the principal Act), for section 11A, the following section
shall be substituted, namely:—
‘11A. Granting of reconnaissance permit, prospecting lincence or mining lease.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government may, for the purpose of
granting reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease in respect of any area containing
28coal or lignite, select any of the following companies through auction by competitive bidding, on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed, namely:—
(a) a Government company or corporation or a joint venture company formed by such
company or corporation or between the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be, or any other company incorporated in India; or
(b) a company or a joint venture company formed by two or more companies,
that carry on coal mining operations in India, in any form either for own consumption, sale or for any
other purpose in accordance with the permit, prospecting licence or mining lease, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government may, with a view to rationalise coal and lignite mines referred to in
sub-section (1), so as to ensure the coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of resources
consistent with the growing requirements of the country, from time to time, prescribe—
(i) the details of mines and their location;
(ii) the minimum size of such mines;
(iii) such other conditions,
which in the opinion of that Government may be necessary for the purpose of mining operations or
mining for sale by a company.
(3) The State Government shall grant such reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence or mining lease
in respect of any area containing coal or lignite to such company as selected through auction by
competitive bidding or otherwise under this section:
Provided that the auction by competitive bidding under this section shall not be applicable to an area
containing coal or lignite—
(a) where such area is considered for allocation to a Government company or corporation or a
joint venture company formed by such company or corporation or between the Central Government
or the State Government, as the case may be;
(b) where such area is considered for allocation to a company or corporation or that has been
awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bids for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Projects).
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, ―company‖ means a company as defined in
clause (20) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).'.
2. Amendment of section 13.—In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for
clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(d) the terms and conditions of auction by competitive bidding, the details of mines and their
location, the minimum size of such mines and such other conditions which may be necessary for
the purpose of coal mining operations including mining for sale by a company under
sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 11A.‖.
————
29